<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_1.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page359" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="359" data-before-text="359"></span><strong>JUDGES</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos47"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>After the death of Joshua, the Israelites<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> inquired of Jehovah: “Who of us will go up first to fight against the Caʹnaan·ites?” <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Jehovah replied: “Judah will go up. Look! I am giving<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> the land into his hand.” <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Judah said to his brother Simʹe·on: “Come up with me into my assigned territory<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> to fight against the Caʹnaan·ites. Then I will go with you into your assigned territory.” So Simʹe·on went with him.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When Judah went up, Jehovah gave the Caʹnaan·ites and the Perʹiz·zites into their hands, and they defeated 10,000 men in Beʹzek. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They found A·doʹni-beʹzek in Beʹzek, and there they fought against him and defeated the Caʹnaan·ites and the Perʹiz·zites. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When A·doʹni-beʹzek fled, they chased him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then A·doʹni-beʹzek said: “There are 70 kings whose thumbs and big toes were cut off and who are picking up food under my table. Just as I have done, so God has repaid me.” After that they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Furthermore, the men of Judah fought against Jerusalem and captured it; they struck it with the sword and set the city on fire. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Afterward, the men of Judah went down to fight against the Caʹnaan·ites inhabiting the mountainous region and the Negʹeb and the She·pheʹlah. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Judah marched against the Caʹnaan·ites who were dwelling in Hebʹron (the name of Hebʹron was previously Kirʹi·ath-arʹba), and they struck down Sheʹshai, A·hiʹman, and Talʹmai.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They marched from there against the inhabitants of Deʹbir. (The name of Deʹbir was previously Kirʹi·ath-seʹpher.) <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Caʹleb said: “To the man who strikes Kirʹi·ath-seʹpher and captures it, I will give my daughter Achʹsah as a wife.” <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And Othʹni·el the son of Keʹnaz, Caʹleb’s younger brother, captured it. So he gave him his daughter Achʹsah as a wife. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> While she was going home, she urged him to ask her father for a field. Then she dismounted from her donkey.<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Caʹleb asked her: “What do you want?” <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> She said to him: “Please grant me a blessing, for you have given me a piece of land in the south;<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> give me also Gulʹloth-maʹim.”<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> So Caʹleb gave her Upper Gulʹloth and Lower Gulʹloth.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And the descendants of the Kenʹite, Moses’ father-in-law, came up from the city of palm trees with the people of Judah to the wilderness of Judah south of Aʹrad. They went there and settled among the people. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But Judah marched on with his brother Simʹe·on, and they attacked the Caʹnaan·ites inhabiting Zeʹphath and devoted it to destruction. So they named the city Horʹmah.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Judah captured Gazʹa and its territory, Ashʹke·lon and its territory, and Ekʹron and its territory. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jehovah was with Judah, and they took possession of the mountainous region, but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain,<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> because they had war chariots with iron scythes.<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> They gave Hebʹron to Caʹleb, just as Moses had promised, and he drove out from there the three sons of Aʹnak.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="page360" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="360" data-before-text="360"></span><span id="pos3086"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But the Benʹja·min·ites did not drive out the Jebʹu·sites inhabiting Jerusalem, so the Jebʹu·sites continue dwelling with the Benʹja·min·ites in Jerusalem down to this day.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3271"></span><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Meantime, the house of Joseph went up against Bethʹel, and Jehovah was with them. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The house of Joseph was spying on Bethʹel (incidentally, the name of the city was previously Luz), <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> and the spies saw a man going out of the city. So they said to him: “Show us, please, the way into the city, and we will treat you kindly.”<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So the man showed them the way into the city, and they struck the city with the sword, but they let the man and all his family go free. <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The man went to the land of the Hitʹtites and built a city and named it Luz, which is its name to this day.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos3876"></span><span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Ma·nasʹseh did not take possession of Beth-sheʹan and its dependent<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> towns, Taʹa·nach and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Dor and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Ibʹle·am and its dependent towns, and the inhabitants of Me·gidʹdo and its dependent towns. The Caʹnaan·ites persisted in dwelling in this land. <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When Israel grew stronger, they subjected the Caʹnaan·ites to forced labor, but they did not drive them out completely.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Nor did Eʹphra·im drive out the Caʹnaan·ites who were dwelling in Geʹzer. The Caʹnaan·ites continued to dwell among them in Geʹzer.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Zebʹu·lun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitʹron and the inhabitants of Naʹha·lol. The Caʹnaan·ites continued to dwell among them and were subjected to forced labor.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Ashʹer did not drive out the inhabitants of Acʹco and the inhabitants of Siʹdon, Ahʹlab, Achʹzib, Helʹbah, Aʹphik, and Reʹhob. <span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So the Ashʹer·ites continued to dwell among the Caʹnaan·ites inhabiting the land, because they did not drive them out.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Naphʹta·li did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-sheʹmesh and the inhabitants of Beth-aʹnath, but they continued to dwell among the Caʹnaan·ites inhabiting the land. The inhabitants of Beth-sheʹmesh and Beth-aʹnath became forced laborers for them.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The Amʹor·ites confined the Danʹites to the mountainous region, for they would not let them come down into the plain.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> So the Amʹor·ites persisted in dwelling in Mount Heʹres, Aiʹja·lon, and Sha·alʹbim. But when the power<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of the house of Joseph increased,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> they were forced into hard labor. <span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The territory of the Amʹor·ites was from the ascent of A·krabʹbim, from Seʹla upward.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:1</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:2</span></a> Or “have given.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:3</span></a> Lit., “my lot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:14</span></a> Or possibly, “she clapped her hands while on the donkey.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:15</span></a> Or “the Negeb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:15</span></a> Meaning “Basins (Bowls) of Water.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:17</span></a> Meaning “A Devoting to Destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:19</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:19</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:24</span></a> Lit., “show you loyal love.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:27</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:34</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:35</span></a> Lit., “hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061111.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:35</span></a> Lit., “became heavy.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
