<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_1.xhtml">1 - 51</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1425" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1425" data-before-text="1425"></span><strong>ACCORDING TO JOHN</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos69"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was a god.<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This one was in the beginning with God. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> All things came into existence through him, and apart from him not even one thing came into existence.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb">What has come into existence <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> by means of him was life, and the life was the light of men. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the light is shining in the darkness, but the darkness has not overpowered it.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> There came a man who was sent as a representative of God; his name was John. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> This man came as a witness, in order to bear witness about the light, so that people of all sorts might believe through him. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He was <span id="page1426" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1426" data-before-text="1426"></span>not that light, but he was meant to bear witness about that light.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The true light that gives light to every sort of man was about to come into the world. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> He was in the world, and the world came into existence through him, but the world did not know him. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He came to his own home, but his own people did not accept him. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> However, to all who did receive him, he gave authority to become God’s children, because they were exercising faith in his name. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And they were born, not from blood or from a fleshly will or from man’s will, but from God.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So the Word became flesh and resided among us, and we had a view of his glory, a glory such as belongs to an only-begotten son from a father; and he was full of divine favor<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and truth. <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> (John bore witness about him, yes, he cried out: “This was the one of whom I said, ‘The one coming behind me has advanced in front of me, for he existed before me.’”) <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For we all received from his fullness, even undeserved kindness upon undeserved kindness. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Because the Law was given through Moses, the undeserved kindness and the truth came to be through Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> No man has seen God at any time; the only-begotten god who is at the Father’s side<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> is the one who has explained Him.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos2016"></span><span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> This is the witness John gave when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: “Who are you?” <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And he admitted it and did not deny it, saying: “I am not the Christ.” <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And they asked him: “What, then? Are you E·liʹjah?” He replied: “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” And he answered: “No!” <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So they said to him: “Who are you? Tell us so that we may give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?” <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He said: “I am a voice of someone crying out in the wilderness, ‘Make the way of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> straight,’ just as Isaiah the prophet said.” <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Now those sent were from the Pharisees. <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So they questioned him and said to him: “Why, then, do you baptize if you are not the Christ or E·liʹjah or the Prophet?” <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> John answered them: “I baptize in water. One is standing among you whom you do not know, <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> the one coming behind me, the lace of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.” <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> These things took place in Bethʹa·ny across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3071"></span><span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and he said: “See, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world! <span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> This is the one about whom I said: ‘Behind me there comes a man who has advanced in front of me, for he existed before me.’ <span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Even I did not know him, but the reason why I came baptizing in water was so that he might be made manifest to Israel.” <span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> John also bore witness, saying: “I viewed the spirit coming down as a dove out of heaven, and it remained upon him. <span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Even I did not know him, but the very One who sent me to baptize in water said to me: ‘Whoever it is upon whom you see the spirit coming down and remaining, this is the one who baptizes in holy spirit.’ <span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And I have seen it, and I have given witness that this one is the Son of God.”</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="page1427" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1427" data-before-text="1427"></span><span id="pos3881"></span><span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Again the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples, <span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> and as he looked at Jesus walking, he said: “See, the Lamb of God!” <span id="chapter1_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> When the two disciples heard him say this, they followed Jesus. <span id="chapter1_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then Jesus turned, and seeing them following, he said to them: “What are you looking for?” They said to him: “Rabbi (which means, when translated, “Teacher”), where are you staying?” <span id="chapter1_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> He said to them: “Come, and you will see.” So they went and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day; it was about the tenth hour.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who heard what John said and followed Jesus. <span id="chapter1_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> He first found his own brother Simon and said to him: “We have found the Mes·siʹah” (which means, when translated, “Christ”), <span id="chapter1_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> and he led him to Jesus. When Jesus looked at him, he said: “You are Simon, the son of John; you will be called Ceʹphas” (which is translated “Peter”).</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos4855"></span><span id="chapter1_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> The next day he wanted to leave for Galʹi·lee. Jesus then found Philip and said to him: “Be my follower.” <span id="chapter1_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Now Philip was from Beth·saʹi·da, from the city of Andrew and Peter. <span id="chapter1_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Philip found Na·thanʹa·el and said to him: “We have found the one of whom Moses, in the Law, and the Prophets wrote: Jesus, the son of Joseph, from Nazʹa·reth.” <span id="chapter1_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> But Na·thanʹa·el said to him: “Can anything good come out of Nazʹa·reth?” Philip said to him: “Come and see.” <span id="chapter1_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Jesus saw Na·thanʹa·el coming toward him and said about him: “See, truly an Israelite in whom there is no deceit.” <span id="chapter1_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Na·thanʹa·el said to him: “How do you know me?” Jesus answered him: “Before Philip called you, while you were under the fig tree, I saw you.” <span id="chapter1_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Na·thanʹa·el responded: “Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are King of Israel.” <span id="chapter1_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Jesus answered him: “Do you believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree? You will see things greater than these.” <span id="chapter1_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> He then said to him: “Most truly I say to you men, you will see heaven opened up and the angels of God ascending and descending to the Son of man.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p155" data-pid="155"><a href="1001061147.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 1:1</span></a> Or “was divine.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p156" data-pid="156"><a href="1001061147.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 1:14</span></a> Or “of undeserved kindness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p157" data-pid="157"><a href="1001061147.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 1:18</span></a> Or “in the bosom position with the Father.” This refers to a position of special favor.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061147.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 1:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061147.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 1:39</span></a> That is, about 4:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
