<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_13.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="pos43202"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>In the 18th year of King Jer·o·boʹam, A·biʹjah became king over Judah. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Mi·caiʹah the daughter of U·riʹel of Gibʹe·ah. And there was war between A·biʹjah and Jer·o·boʹam.</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos43448"></span><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So A·biʹjah went to war with an army of 400,000 mighty, trained<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> warriors. And Jer·o·boʹam drew up in battle formation against him with 800,000 trained<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> men, mighty warriors. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> A·biʹjah now stood on Mount Zem·a·raʹim, which is in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, and said: “Hear me, O Jer·o·boʹam and all Israel. <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Do you not know that Jehovah the God of Israel gave to David a kingdom over Israel forever, to him and to his sons, by a covenant of salt?<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat, the servant of David’s son Solʹo·mon, rose up and rebelled against his lord. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And idle, worthless men kept gathering to him. And they proved superior to Re·ho·boʹam the son of Solʹo·mon when Re·ho·boʹam was young and fainthearted, and he could not hold his own against them.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “And now you think you can hold your own against the kingdom of Jehovah in the hand of the sons of David because you are a large crowd and you have the golden calves that Jer·o·boʹam made as gods for you. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Have you not driven out Jehovah’s priests, the descendants of Aaron, and the Levites, and have you not appointed your own priests just like the peoples of the other lands? Anyone who came along with<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> a <span id="page621" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="621" data-before-text="621"></span>young bull and seven rams could become a priest of what are not gods. <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As for us, Jehovah is our God, and we have not abandoned him; our priests, the descendants of Aaron, are ministering to Jehovah, and the Levites assist in the work. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They are making burnt offerings smoke to Jehovah each morning and each evening along with perfumed incense, and the layer bread<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> is on the table of pure gold, and they light up the golden lampstand and its lamps each evening, because we are caring for our responsibility to Jehovah our God; but you have abandoned him. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now look! the true God is with us, leading us, with his priests and the signal trumpets for sounding the battle alarm against you. O men of Israel, do not fight against Jehovah the God of your forefathers, for you will not be successful.”</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But Jer·o·boʹam dispatched an ambush to come from behind them, so that they were in front of Judah and the ambush was behind them. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When the men of Judah turned around, they saw that they had to fight the battle both in front and from behind. So they began to cry out to Jehovah, while the priests were loudly sounding the trumpets. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The men of Judah broke out in a war cry, and when the men of Judah shouted the war cry, the true God defeated Jer·o·boʹam and all Israel before A·biʹjah and Judah. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The Israelites fled before Judah, and God gave them into their hand. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> A·biʹjah and his people inflicted a great slaughter on them, and the slain of Israel kept falling, 500,000 trained<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> men. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Thus the men of Israel were humbled at that time, but the men of Judah proved superior because they relied<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> on Jehovah the God of their forefathers. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> A·biʹjah kept chasing after Jer·o·boʹam and captured cities from him, Bethʹel and its dependent<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> towns, Jeshʹa·nah and its dependent towns, and Eʹphra·in and its dependent towns. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And Jer·o·boʹam never regained his power during the time of A·biʹjah; then Jehovah struck him down and he died.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But A·biʹjah grew in strength. In time he took 14 wives, and he became father to 22 sons and 16 daughters. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the rest of A·biʹjah’s history, his deeds and his words, is recorded in the writings<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> of the prophet Idʹdo.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:3</span></a> Lit., “chosen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:3</span></a> Lit., “chosen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:5</span></a> That is, a permanent and unchanging covenant.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:9</span></a> Lit., “came to fill his hand with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:11</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:17</span></a> Lit., “chosen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:18</span></a> Lit., “leaned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:19</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061118-split13.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 13:22</span></a> Or “exposition; commentary.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
