<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061162"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Hebrews</a>  <a href="biblechapternav58.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav58_11.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos29444"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for, the evident demonstration<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> of realities that are not seen. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For by means of it, the men of ancient times<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> had witness borne to them.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos29641"></span><span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> By faith we perceive that the systems of things<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> were put in order by God’s word, so that what is seen has come into existence from things that are not visible.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> By faith Abel offered God a sacrifice of greater worth than that of Cain, and through that faith he received the witness that he was righteous, for God approved<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> his gifts, and although <span id="page1611" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1611" data-before-text="1611"></span>he died, he still speaks through his faith.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> By faith Eʹnoch was transferred so as not to see death, and he was nowhere to be found because God had transferred him; for before he was transferred he received the witness that he had pleased God well. <span id="pos30256"></span><span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Moreover, without faith it is impossible to please God well, for whoever approaches God must believe that he is<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> By faith Noah, after receiving divine warning of things not yet seen, showed godly fear and constructed an ark for the saving of his household; and through this faith he condemned the world, and he became an heir of the righteousness that results from faith.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place he was to receive as an inheritance; he went out, although not knowing where he was going. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land of the promise as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the very same promise. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For he was awaiting the city having real foundations, whose designer<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> and builder is God.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> By faith also Sarah received power to conceive offspring,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> even when she was past the age, since she considered Him faithful<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> who made the promise. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For this reason, from one man who was as good as dead, there were born children, as many as the stars of heaven in number and as innumerable as the sands by the seaside.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In faith all of these died, although they did not receive the fulfillment of the promises; but they saw them from a distance and welcomed them and publicly declared that they were strangers and temporary residents in the land. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For those who speak in such a way make it evident that they are earnestly seeking a place of their own. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And yet, if they had kept remembering the place from which they had departed, they would have had opportunity to return. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But now they are reaching out for a better place, that is, one belonging to heaven. Therefore, God is not ashamed of them, to be called on as their God, for he has prepared a city for them.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> By faith Abraham, when he was tested, as good as offered up Isaac—the man who had gladly received the promises attempted to offer up his only-begotten son— <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> although it had been said to him: “What will be called your offspring<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> will be through Isaac.” <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, and he did receive him from there in an illustrative way.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> By faith also Isaac blessed Jacob and Eʹsau concerning things to come.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> By faith Jacob, when about to die, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped while leaning on the top of his staff.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> By faith Joseph, nearing his end, spoke of the exodus of the sons of Israel, and he gave instructions<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> concerning his bones.<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a></p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> By faith Moses was hid by his parents for three months after his birth, because they saw that the young child was <span id="page1612" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1612" data-before-text="1612"></span>beautiful and they did not fear the order of the king. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> By faith Moses, when grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharʹaoh’s daughter, <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> choosing to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin, <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> because he considered the reproach of the Christ to be riches greater than the treasures of Egypt, for he looked intently toward the payment of the reward. <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> By faith he left Egypt, but not fearing the anger of the king, for he continued steadfast as seeing the One who is invisible. <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> By faith he observed the Passover and the splashing of the blood, so that the destroyer might not harm<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> their firstborn.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land, but when the Egyptians attempted it, they were swallowed up.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> By faith the walls of Jerʹi·cho fell down after the people had marched around them for seven days. <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> By faith Raʹhab the prostitute did not perish with those who acted disobediently, because she received the spies in a peaceable way.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And what more will I say? For time will fail me if I go on to relate about Gidʹe·on, Baʹrak, Samson, Jephʹthah, David, as well as Samuel and the other prophets. <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Through faith they defeated kingdoms, brought about righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> quenched the force of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from a weak state were made powerful, became mighty in war, routed invading armies. <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Women received their dead by resurrection, but other men were tortured because they would not accept release by some ransom, in order that they might attain a better resurrection. <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Yes, others received their trial by mockings and scourgings, indeed, more than that, by chains and prisons. <span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They were stoned, they were tried, they were sawn in two,<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> they were slaughtered by the sword, they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, while they were in need, in tribulation, mistreated; <span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> and the world was not worthy of them. They wandered about in deserts and mountains and caves and dens of the earth.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And yet all of these, although they received a favorable witness because of their faith, did not obtain the fulfillment of the promise, <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> because God had foreseen something better for us, so that they might not be made perfect apart from us.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p152" data-pid="152"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:1</span></a> Or “convincing evidence.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p153" data-pid="153"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:2</span></a> Or “our ancestors.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p154" data-pid="154"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:3</span></a> Or “the ages.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p155" data-pid="155"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:4</span></a> Or “bore witness by acknowledging.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p156" data-pid="156"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:6</span></a> Or “exists.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p157" data-pid="157"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:10</span></a> Or “architect.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:11</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:11</span></a> Or “trustworthy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p160" data-pid="160"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:18</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p161" data-pid="161"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:22</span></a> Or “a command.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p162" data-pid="162"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:22</span></a> Or “burial.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p163" data-pid="163"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:28</span></a> Lit., “touch.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p164" data-pid="164"><a href="1001061162-split11.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 11:37</span></a> Or “sawn apart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
