<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_2.xhtml">1 - 52</a></p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos9118"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Now in those days a decree went out from Caesar Au·gusʹtus for all the inhabited earth to be registered. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> (This first registration took place when Qui·rinʹi·us was governor of Syria.) <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And all the people went to be registered, each one to his own city. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Of course, Joseph also went up from Galʹi·lee, from the city of Nazʹa·reth, into Ju·deʹa, to David’s city, which is called Bethʹle·hem, because <span id="page1381" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1381" data-before-text="1381"></span>of his being a member of the house and family of David. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He went to get registered with Mary, who had been given him in marriage as promised and who was soon to give birth. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> While they were there, the time came for her to give birth. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And she gave birth to her son, the firstborn, and she wrapped him in strips of cloth and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the lodging place.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos9949"></span><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> There were also in the same region shepherds living out of doors and keeping watch in the night over their flocks. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Suddenly Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> angel stood before them, and Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> glory gleamed around them, and they became very fearful. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But the angel said to them: “Do not be afraid, for look! I am declaring to you good news of a great joy that all the people will have. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For today there was born to you in David’s city a savior, who is Christ the Lord. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And this is a sign for you: You will find an infant wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a manger.” <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God and saying: <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “Glory in the heights above to God, and on earth peace among men of goodwill.”<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a></p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So when the angels had departed from them into heaven, the shepherds began saying to one another: “Let us by all means go over to Bethʹle·hem and see what has taken place, which Jehovah<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> has made known to us.” <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And they went quickly and found Mary as well as Joseph, and the infant lying in the manger. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When they saw this, they made known the message that they had been told concerning this young child. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And all who heard were astonished at what the shepherds told them, <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> but Mary began to preserve all these sayings, drawing conclusions in her heart. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then the shepherds went back, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, just as it had been told to them.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos11437"></span><span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After eight days, when it was time to circumcise him, he was named Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Also, when the time came for purifying them according to the Law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> just as it is written in Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> Law: “Every firstborn male<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> must be called holy to Jehovah.”<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And they offered a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of Jehovah:<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> “a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.”</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos11953"></span><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And look! there was a man in Jerusalem named Simʹe·on, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for Israel’s consolation, and holy spirit was upon him. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Furthermore, it had been divinely revealed to him by the holy spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Christ of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Under the power of the spirit, he now came into the temple, and as the parents brought the young child Jesus in to do for him according to the customary practice of the Law, <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> he took the child into his arms and praised God and said: <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go in peace according to your declaration, <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> because my eyes have seen your means of salvation <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> that you <span id="page1382" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1382" data-before-text="1382"></span>have prepared in the sight of all the peoples, <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> a light for removing the veil from the nations and a glory of your people Israel.” <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And the child’s father and mother continued wondering at the things being spoken about him. <span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Also, Simʹe·on blessed them and said to Mary, the child’s mother: “Look! This child is appointed for the falling and the rising again of many in Israel and for a sign to be spoken against <span id="chapter2_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> (yes, a long sword will be run through you<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a>), in order that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos13245"></span><span id="chapter2_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Now there was a prophetess, Anna the daughter of Phanʹu·el, of Ashʹer’s tribe. This woman was well along in years and had lived with her husband for seven years after they were married,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and she was a widow now 84 years old. She was never missing from the temple, rendering sacred service night and day with fasting and supplications. <span id="chapter2_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> In that very hour she came near and began giving thanks to God and speaking about the child to all who were waiting for Jerusalem’s deliverance.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos13747"></span><span id="chapter2_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So when they had carried out all the things according to the Law of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> they went back into Galʹi·lee to their own city, Nazʹa·reth. <span id="chapter2_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And the young child continued growing and getting strong, being filled with wisdom, and God’s favor continued upon him.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos14022"></span><span id="chapter2_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Now his parents were accustomed to go from year to year to Jerusalem for the festival of the Passover. <span id="chapter2_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And when he was 12 years old, they went up according to the custom of the festival. <span id="chapter2_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> When the days of the festival were over and they were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and his parents did not notice it. <span id="chapter2_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Assuming that he was in the group traveling together, they went a day’s journey and then began to search for him among the relatives and acquaintances. <span id="chapter2_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem and made a diligent search for him. <span id="chapter2_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Well, after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers and listening to them and asking them questions. <span id="chapter2_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> But all those listening to him were in constant amazement at his understanding and his answers. <span id="chapter2_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Now when his parents saw him, they were astounded, and his mother said to him: “Child, why did you treat us this way? Here your father and I have been frantically looking for you.” <span id="chapter2_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> But he said to them: “Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in the house of my Father?” <span id="chapter2_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> However, they did not understand what he was saying to them.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Then he went down with them and returned to Nazʹa·reth, and he continued subject<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> to them. Also, his mother carefully kept all these sayings in her heart. <span id="chapter2_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And Jesus went on progressing in wisdom and in physical growth and in favor with God and men.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:14</span></a> Or “people whom he approves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:22</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:23</span></a> Lit., “Every male opening the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:24</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:26</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:35</span></a> Or “your own soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:36</span></a> Lit., “from her virginity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:39</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061146-split2.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 2:51</span></a> Or “remained obedient.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
