<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Peter 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061164"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Peter</a>  <a href="biblechapternav60.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav60_3.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos7243"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>In the same way, you wives, be in subjection to your husbands, so that if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Do not let your adornment be external—the braiding of hair and the wearing of gold ornaments or fine clothing— <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> but let it be the secret person of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of the quiet and mild spirit, which is of great value in the eyes of God. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For this is how the holy women of the past who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, subjecting themselves to their husbands, <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. And you have become her children, provided you continue doing good and do not give in to fear.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You husbands, in the same way, continue dwelling with them according to knowledge.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> Assign them honor as to a weaker vessel, the feminine one, since they are also heirs with you of the undeserved favor of life, in order for your prayers not to be hindered.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos8328"></span><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Finally, all of you have unity of mind,<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> fellow feeling, brotherly affection, tender compassion, and humility. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Do not pay back injury for injury or insult for insult. Instead, repay with a blessing, for you were called to this course, so that you might inherit a blessing.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For “whoever would love life and see good days must guard his tongue from bad and his lips from speaking deception. <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Let him turn away from what is bad and do what is good; let him seek peace and pursue it. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For the eyes of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> are on the righteous, and his ears listen to their supplication, but the face of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> is against those doing bad things.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos8998"></span><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Indeed, who will harm you if you become zealous for what <span id="page1624" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1624" data-before-text="1624"></span>is good? <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are happy. However, do not fear what they fear,<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> nor be disturbed. <span id="pos9217"></span><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But sanctify the Christ as Lord in your hearts, always ready to make a defense before everyone who demands of you a reason for the hope you have, but doing so with a mild temper and deep respect.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Maintain a good conscience, so that in whatever way you are spoken against, those who speak against you may be put to shame because of your good conduct as followers of Christ. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For it is better to suffer because you are doing good, if it is God’s will to allow it, than because you are doing evil. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For Christ died once for all time for sins, a righteous person for unrighteous ones, in order to lead you to God. He was put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And in this state he went and preached to the spirits in prison, <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> who had formerly been disobedient when God was patiently waiting<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> in Noah’s day, while the ark was being constructed, in which a few people, that is, eight souls,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> were carried safely through the water.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos10212"></span><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Baptism, which corresponds to this, is also now saving you (not by the removing of the filth of the flesh, but by the request to God for a good conscience), through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> He is at God’s right hand, for he went to heaven, and angels and authorities and powers were made subject to him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p60" data-pid="60"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:7</span></a> Or “showing them consideration; understanding them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p61" data-pid="61"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:8</span></a> Or “think in agreement.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p62" data-pid="62"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p63" data-pid="63"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p64" data-pid="64"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:14</span></a> Or possibly, “do not fear their threats.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p65" data-pid="65"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:20</span></a> Lit., “the patience of God was waiting.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p66" data-pid="66"><a href="1001061164-split3.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 3:20</span></a> Or “persons.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
