<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_3.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos8914"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>There was a man of the Pharisees named Nic·o·deʹmus, a ruler of the Jews. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This one came to him in the night and said to him: “Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can perform these signs that you perform unless God is with him.” <span id="pos9186"></span><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> In response Jesus said to him: “Most truly I say to you, unless anyone is born again,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> he cannot see the Kingdom of God.” <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Nic·o·deʹmus said to him: “How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter into the womb of his mother a second time and be born, can he?” <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “Most truly I say to you, unless anyone is born from water and spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> What has been born from the flesh is flesh, and what has been born from the spirit is spirit. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Do not be amazed because I told you: You people must be born again. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The wind blows where it wants to, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from and where it is going. So it is with everyone who has been born from the spirit.”</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In answer Nic·o·deʹmus said to him: “How can these things be?” <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jesus replied: “Are you a teacher of Israel and yet do not know these things? <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, what we know we speak, and what we have seen <span id="page1429" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1429" data-before-text="1429"></span>we bear witness to, but you do not receive the witness we give. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> If I have told you earthly things and you still do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Moreover, no man has ascended into heaven but the one who descended from heaven, the Son of man. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of man must be lifted up, <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> so that everyone believing in him may have everlasting life.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos10657"></span><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “For God loved the world so much that he gave his only-begotten Son, so that everyone exercising faith in him might not be destroyed but have everlasting life. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For God did not send his Son into the world for him to judge the world, but for the world to be saved through him. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Whoever exercises faith in him is not to be judged. Whoever does not exercise faith has been judged already, because he has not exercised faith in the name of the only-begotten Son of God. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Now this is the basis for judgment: that the light has come into the world, but men have loved the darkness rather than the light, for their works were wicked. <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For whoever practices vile things hates the light and does not come to the light, so that his works may not be reproved.<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that his works may be made manifest as having been done in harmony with God.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos11583"></span><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Ju·deʹan countryside, and there he spent some time with them and was baptizing. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But John too was baptizing in Aeʹnon near Saʹlim, because there was a great quantity of water there, and people kept coming and were being baptized; <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> for John had not yet been thrown into prison.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now the disciples of John had a dispute with a Jew concerning purification. <span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So they came to John and said to him: “Rabbi, the man who was with you across the Jordan, about whom you bore witness, see, this one is baptizing, and all are going to him.” <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> In answer John said: “A man cannot receive a single thing unless it has been given him from heaven. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> You yourselves bear me witness that I said, ‘I am not the Christ, but I have been sent ahead of that one.’ <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Whoever has the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, when he stands and hears him, has a great deal of joy on account of the voice of the bridegroom. So my joy has been made complete. <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> That one must keep on increasing, but I must keep on decreasing.”</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos12706"></span><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The one who comes from above is over all others. The one who is from the earth is from the earth and speaks of things of the earth. The one who comes from heaven is over all others. <span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, but no man accepts his witness. <span id="chapter3_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Whoever has accepted his witness has put his seal to it<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> that God is true. <span id="chapter3_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> For the one whom God sent speaks the sayings of God, for He does not give the spirit sparingly.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. <span id="chapter3_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The one who exercises faith in the Son has everlasting life; the one who disobeys the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains upon him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p163" data-pid="163"><a href="1001061147-split3.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 3:3</span></a> Or possibly, “born from above.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p164" data-pid="164"><a href="1001061147-split3.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 3:20</span></a> Or “exposed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p165" data-pid="165"><a href="1001061147-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 3:33</span></a> Or “has confirmed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p166" data-pid="166"><a href="1001061147-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 3:34</span></a> Or “by measure.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
