<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 30</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">30</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_30.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p348" data-pid="348" class="p348 sb"><span id="pos147144"></span><span id="chapter30"></span><span id="chapter30_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>30</strong> </span>Then Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of Israel, saying: “This is the word that Jehovah has commanded: <span id="chapter30_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> If a man makes a vow to Jehovah or swears an oath to impose on himself<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> a vow of abstinence, he must not violate his word. He should do everything he vowed he would do.</p>
<p id="p349" data-pid="349" class="p349 sb"><span id="pos147436"></span><span id="chapter30_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “And if a woman makes a vow to Jehovah or she imposes a vow of abstinence on herself when she is young and living in the house of her father <span id="chapter30_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and her father hears her vow or her abstinence vow that she has imposed on herself<span id="footnotesource212"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote212">*</a> and her father offers no objection, all her vows will stand, and every abstinence vow that she has imposed on herself will stand. <span id="chapter30_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But if her father forbids her when he hears that she has imposed vows or abstinence vows on herself, it will not stand. Jehovah will forgive her because her father forbade her.</p>
<p id="p350" data-pid="350" class="p350 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “However, if she should marry a husband while under her vow or the rash promise that she has imposed on herself <span id="chapter30_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and her husband hears of it and offers no objection on the day he hears of it, her vows or her abstinence vows that she has imposed on herself will stand. <span id="chapter30_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But if her husband forbids her on the day he hears of it, he may annul the vow or the rash promise that she imposed on herself, and Jehovah will forgive her.</p>
<p id="p351" data-pid="351" class="p351 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “But if a widow or a divorced woman makes a vow, everything that she has imposed on herself will be binding on her.</p>
<p id="p352" data-pid="352" class="p352 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “However, if a woman imposed the vow or the abstinence vow on herself while in the <span id="page263" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="263" data-before-text="263"></span>house of her husband <span id="chapter30_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and her husband heard it and has not objected or disapproved, all her vows or any abstinence vow that she imposed on herself will stand. <span id="chapter30_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But if on the day he heard them her husband completely annulled whatever vows or abstinence vow she swore to, they will not stand. Her husband annulled them, and Jehovah will forgive her. <span id="chapter30_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Regarding any vow or any oath involving an abstinence vow to practice self-denial,<span id="footnotesource213"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote213">*</a> her husband should establish it or her husband should annul it. <span id="chapter30_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But if her husband offers no objection at all from day to day, he also establishes all her vows or all her abstinence vows that are upon her. He establishes them because he did not object on the day he heard her make them. <span id="chapter30_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But if he annuls them later, sometime after the day he heard them, he will bear the consequences of her guilt.</p>
<p id="p353" data-pid="353" class="p353 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “These are the regulations that Jehovah commanded Moses relating to a husband and his wife, and relating to a father and his young daughter living in his house.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p614" data-pid="614"><a href="1001061108-split30.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 30:2</span></a> Or “to bind an obligation upon his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote212"><p id="p615" data-pid="615"><a href="1001061108-split30.xhtml#footnotesource212">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 30:4</span></a> Or “her soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote213"><p id="p616" data-pid="616"><a href="1001061108-split30.xhtml#footnotesource213">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 30:13</span></a> Or “a vow to afflict the soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
