<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_9.xhtml">1 - 50</a></p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos40332"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>Furthermore, he said to them: “Truly I say to you that there are some of those standing here who will not taste death at all until first they see the Kingdom of God already having come in power.” <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Six days later Jesus took Peter and James and John along and led them up into a lofty mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them; <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> his outer garments began to glisten, becoming far whiter than any clothes cleaner on earth could whiten them. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Also, E·liʹjah with Moses appeared to them, and they were conversing with Jesus. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Peter said to Jesus: “Rabbi, it is fine for us to be here. So let us erect three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for E·liʹjah.” <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In fact, he did not know how to react, for they were quite fearful. <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And a cloud formed, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud: “This is my Son, the beloved. Listen to him.” <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then suddenly they looked around and saw that no one was with them any longer except Jesus.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As they were coming down from the mountain, he strictly ordered them not to relate to anybody what they had seen until after the Son of man had risen from the dead. <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They took the word to heart,<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> but discussed among themselves what this rising from the dead meant. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And they began to question him, saying: “Why do the scribes say that E·liʹjah must come first?” <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He said to them: “E·liʹjah does come first and restore all things; but how is it that it is written about the Son of man that he must undergo many sufferings and be treated with contempt? <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But I say to you that E·liʹjah, in fact, has come, and they did to him whatever they wanted, just as it is written about him.”</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos42037"></span><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When they came to the other disciples, they noticed a large crowd around them, <span id="page1363" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1363" data-before-text="1363"></span>and there were scribes arguing with them. <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But as soon as all the crowd caught sight of him, they were astonished, and they ran up to him to greet him. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So he asked them: “What are you arguing about with them?” <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And one of the crowd answered him: “Teacher, I brought my son to you because he has a speechless spirit. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Wherever it seizes him, it throws him to the ground, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth and loses his strength. I asked your disciples to expel it, but they were not able to do so.” <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In response he said to them: “O faithless generation, how long must I continue with you? How long must I put up with you? Bring him to me.” <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So they brought the boy to him, but at the sight of him, the spirit at once threw the child into convulsions. After falling on the ground, he kept rolling about, foaming at the mouth. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Jesus asked the father: “How long has this been happening to him?” He said: “From childhood on, <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> and often it would throw him into the fire and also into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have pity on us and help us.” <span id="pos43261"></span><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “That expression, ‘If you can’! Why, all things are possible for the one who has faith.” <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Immediately the child’s father cried out and said: “I have faith! Help me out where I need faith!”</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Jesus, now noticing that a crowd was rushing toward them, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it: “You speechless and deaf spirit, I order you, get out of him and do not enter into him again!” <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> After crying out and going through many convulsions, it came out, and the child seemed to be dead, so that most of the people were saying: “He is dead!” <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him up, and he stood up. <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So after he entered into a house, his disciples asked him privately: “Why could we not expel it?” <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He said to them: “This kind can come out only by prayer.”</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos44092"></span><span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> They departed from there and went through Galʹi·lee, but he did not want anyone to get to know about it. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> For he was teaching his disciples and telling them: “The Son of man is going to be betrayed into men’s hands, and they will kill him, but despite being killed, he will rise three days later.” <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> However, they did not understand his statement, and they were afraid to question him.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="pos44498"></span><span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And they came into Ca·perʹna·um. Now when he was inside the house, he put the question to them: “What were you arguing about on the road?” <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> They kept silent, for on the road they had been arguing among themselves about who is greater. <span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> So he sat down and called the Twelve and said to them: “If anyone wants to be first, he must be last of all and minister of all.” <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then he took a young child and stood him in their midst; and putting his arms around him, he said to them: <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “Whoever receives one of such young children on the basis of my name receives me also; and whoever receives me receives not me only but also Him who sent me.”</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos45166"></span><span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> John said to him: “Teacher, we saw someone expelling demons by using your name, and we tried to prevent him, because he was not following us.” <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But Jesus said: “Do not try to prevent him, for there is no one who will do a powerful work on the basis of my name who will quickly be able to say anything <span id="page1364" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1364" data-before-text="1364"></span>bad about me. <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> For whoever is not against us is for us. <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward. <span id="pos45689"></span><span id="chapter9_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> But whoever stumbles one of these little ones who have faith, it would be better for him if a millstone that is turned by a donkey were put around his neck and he were pitched into the sea.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> “If ever your hand makes you stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed than to go off with two hands into Ge·henʹna,<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> into the fire that cannot be put out. <span id="chapter9_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> —— <span id="chapter9_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> And if your foot makes you stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life lame than to be thrown with two feet into Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> —— <span id="chapter9_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> And if your eye makes you stumble, throw it away. It is better for you to enter one-eyed into the Kingdom of God than to be thrown with two eyes into Ge·henʹna,<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> where the maggot does not die and the fire is not put out.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos46482"></span><span id="chapter9_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> “For everyone must be salted with fire. <span id="chapter9_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Salt is fine, but if the salt ever loses its saltiness, with what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and keep peace with one another.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p171" data-pid="171"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:10</span></a> Or possibly, “kept the matter to themselves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p172" data-pid="172"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:43</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p173" data-pid="173"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:44</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p174" data-pid="174"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:45</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p175" data-pid="175"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:46</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p176" data-pid="176"><a href="1001061145-split9.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 9:47</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
