<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061119"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezra</a>  <a href="biblechapternav15.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav15_6.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos17744"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>It was then that King Da·riʹus issued an order, and they made an investigation in the archives<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> where the treasures were deposited in Babylon. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And a scroll was found in the citadel at Ec·batʹa·na, in the province<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> of Meʹdi·a, and the following memorandum was written on it:</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “In the first year of King Cyrus, King Cyrus issued an order concerning the house of God in Jerusalem: ‘Let the house be rebuilt as the place where they are to offer sacrifices, and its foundations are to be set in place; its height is to be 60 cubits,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> its width 60 cubits, <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> with three layers of large stones rolled into place and one layer of timbers; and let the expense be paid from the king’s house. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Also, let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God that Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon be returned, so that they may be put in their place in the temple in Jerusalem and be deposited in the house of God.’</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “So now Tatʹte·nai the governor of the region Beyond the River,<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> Sheʹthar-bozʹe·nai, and your colleagues, the lesser governors of the region Beyond the River—stay away from there. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Do not interfere with the work on that house of God. The governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews will rebuild that house of God in its former place. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Furthermore, I am issuing an order as to what you are to do for these elders of the Jews for rebuilding that house of God: From the royal treasury, from the tax collected in the region Beyond the River, the expenses are to be promptly given to these men to continue without interruption. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And whatever is needed—young bulls as well as rams and lambs for the burnt offerings to the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, just as the priests who are in Jerusalem say—is to be given them continually day by day without fail, <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> so that they may continually present offerings that please the God of the heavens and pray for the life of the king and his sons. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> I have also issued an order that if anyone violates this decree, a timber will be pulled out of his house and he will be lifted up and fastened to it,<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> and his house will be turned into a public latrine<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> for this offense. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And may the God who has caused his name to reside there overthrow any king and people who lift a hand to violate this order and destroy that house of God, which is in Jerusalem. I, Da·riʹus, issue this order. Let it be done promptly.”</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos20211"></span><span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Tatʹte·nai the governor of the region Beyond the River, Sheʹthar-bozʹe·nai, and their colleagues promptly carried out everything that King Da·riʹus had ordered. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the elders of the Jews continued building and making progress, urged on by the prophesying of Hagʹgai the prophet and Zech·a·riʹah the grandson of Idʹdo; they finished building it by the order of the God of Israel and by the order of Cyrus and Da·riʹus and King Ar·ta·xerxʹes of Persia. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They completed the house by the third day of the month of <span id="page661" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="661" data-before-text="661"></span>Aʹdar,<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> in the sixth year of the reign of King Da·riʹus.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then the Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the rest of the former exiles held the inauguration<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> of this house of God with joy. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And they presented for the inauguration of this house of God 100 bulls, 200 rams, 400 lambs, and as a sin offering for all Israel 12 male goats, corresponding to the number of the tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And they appointed the priests in their groups and the Levites in their divisions for the service of God in Jerusalem, according to what is written in the book of Moses.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos21342"></span><span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And the former exiles held the Passover on the 14th day of the first month. <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The priests and the Levites, without exception, had cleansed themselves, so they were all clean; they slaughtered the Passover sacrifice for all the former exiles, for their fellow priests, and for themselves. <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then the Israelites who had returned from the exile ate of it, along with everyone who had joined them and had separated himself from the uncleanness of the nations of the land to worship<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> Jehovah the God of Israel. <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> They also joyfully held the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days, for Jehovah caused them to rejoice and he had made the heart of the king of As·syrʹi·a favorable toward them, so that he supported them<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> in the work of the house of the true God, the God of Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p99" data-pid="99"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:1</span></a> Lit., “the house of the records.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p100" data-pid="100"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:2</span></a> Or “jurisdictional district.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p101" data-pid="101"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:3</span></a> About 26.7 m (87.6 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p102" data-pid="102"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:6</span></a> Or “of Trans-Euphrates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p103" data-pid="103"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:11</span></a> Or “and he will be impaled on it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p104" data-pid="104"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:11</span></a> Or possibly, “a garbage dump; a dunghill.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p105" data-pid="105"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p106" data-pid="106"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:16</span></a> Or “dedication.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p107" data-pid="107"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:21</span></a> Lit., “search for.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p108" data-pid="108"><a href="1001061119-split6.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 6:22</span></a> Lit., “strengthened their hands.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
