<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_14.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos58854"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>At that time Herod, the district ruler,<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> heard the report about Jesus <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and said to his servants: “This is John the Baptist. He was raised up from the dead, and this is why these powerful works are operating in him.” <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Herod<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> had arrested John and had bound him and imprisoned him because of He·roʹdi·as, the wife of Philip his brother. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For John had been saying to him: “It is not lawful for you to have her.” <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> However, although he wanted to kill him, he feared the crowd, because they took him for a prophet. <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But when Herod’s birthday was being celebrated, the daughter of He·roʹdi·as danced for the occasion and pleased Herod so much <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then she, at her mother’s prompting, said: “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Grieved though he was, the king, out of regard <span id="page1325" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1325" data-before-text="1325"></span>for his oaths and for those dining<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> with him, commanded it to be given. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So he sent and had John beheaded in the prison. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> His head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Later his disciples came and removed his corpse and buried him; then they came and reported to Jesus. <span id="pos60079"></span><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> At hearing this, Jesus departed from there by boat into an isolated place to be alone. But the crowds, getting to hear of it, followed him on foot from the cities.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When he came ashore, he saw a large crowd, and he felt pity for them, and he cured their sick ones. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But when evening fell, his disciples came to him and said: “The place is isolated and the hour is already late; send the crowds away, so that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food.” <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> However, Jesus said to them: “They do not have to leave; you give them something to eat.” <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They said to him: “We have nothing here except five loaves and two fish.” <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He said: “Bring them here to me.” <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And he instructed the crowds to recline on the grass. Then he took the five loaves and two fish, and looking up to heaven, he said a blessing, and after breaking the loaves, he gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So they all ate and were satisfied, and they took up the leftover fragments, 12 baskets full. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Now those eating were about 5,000 men, as well as women and young children. <span id="pos61222"></span><span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then, without delay, he made his disciples board the boat and go ahead of him to the opposite shore, while he sent the crowds away.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After sending the crowds away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone. <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> By now the boat was many hundreds of yards<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> away from land, struggling against the waves because the wind was against them. <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But in the fourth watch of the night<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> he came to them, walking on the sea. <span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When they caught sight of him walking on the sea, the disciples were troubled, saying: “It is an apparition!” And they cried out in their fear. <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But at once Jesus spoke to them, saying: “Take courage! It is I; do not be afraid.” <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Peter answered him: “Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you over the waters.” <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He said: “Come!” So Peter got out of the boat and walked over the waters and went toward Jesus. <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But looking at the windstorm, he became afraid. And when he started to sink, he cried out: “Lord, save me!” <span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Immediately stretching out his hand, Jesus caught hold of him and said to him: “You with little faith, why did you give way to doubt?” <span id="chapter14_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> After they got up into the boat, the windstorm abated. <span id="chapter14_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Then those in the boat did obeisance<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> to him, saying: “You really are God’s Son.” <span id="pos62547"></span><span id="chapter14_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And they crossed over and came to land in Gen·nesʹa·ret.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> On recognizing him, the men of that place sent word into all that surrounding country, and people brought him all those who were ill. <span id="chapter14_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And they pleaded with him that they might just touch the fringe of his outer garment, and all those who touched it were made completely well.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:1</span></a> Lit., “the tetrarch.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:3</span></a> That is, Herod Antipas. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos44070">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:9</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:24</span></a> Lit., “many stadia.” A stadium equaled 185 m (606.95 ft).</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:25</span></a> That is, about 3:00 a.m. until sunrise at about 6:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p333" data-pid="333"><a href="1001061144-split14.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 14:33</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
