<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061120"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav16.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav16_13.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="pos54632"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>On that day the book of Moses was read in the hearing of the people, and it was found written that no Amʹmon·ite or Moʹab·ite should ever enter the congregation of the true God, <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> for they had not met the Israelites with bread and water, but instead they had hired Baʹlaam against them to curse them. However, our God had changed the curse into a blessing. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> As soon as they heard the Law, they began to separate from Israel all those of foreign descent.<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a></p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now before this, the priest in charge of the storerooms<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> of the house<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> of our God was E·liʹa·shib, a relative of To·biʹah. <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He had made available for him a large storeroom,<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> where previously they used to put the grain offering, the frankincense, and the utensils and the tenth<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, to which the Levites, <span id="page686" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="686" data-before-text="686"></span>the singers, and the gatekeepers are entitled, along with the contribution for the priests.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And during all this time I was not in Jerusalem, for I went to the king in the 32nd year of King Ar·ta·xerxʹes of Babylon; and sometime later I asked the king for a leave of absence. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then I came to Jerusalem and noticed the terrible thing that E·liʹa·shib had done in behalf of To·biʹah, making a storeroom available for him in the courtyard of the house of the true God. <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> This was very displeasing to me, so I threw all of To·biʹah’s household furniture out of the storeroom.<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> After that I gave orders, and they cleansed the storerooms;<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> and I put back there the utensils of the house of the true God, with the grain offering and the frankincense.</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="pos56221"></span><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I also found out that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, so that the Levites and the singers who did the work had gone off, each to his own field. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So I reprimanded the deputy rulers and said: “Why has the house of the true God been neglected?” Then I gathered them together and assigned them back to their posts. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And all Judah brought in the tenth of the grain, the new wine, and the oil to the storerooms. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then I put Shel·e·miʹah the priest, Zaʹdok the copyist,<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> and Pe·daiʹah of the Levites in charge of the storerooms, and Haʹnan the son of Zacʹcur the son of Mat·ta·niʹah was their assistant, for these men were considered reliable. It was their responsibility to make the distribution to their brothers.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Do remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my acts of loyal love that I have done for the house of my God and its services.<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a></p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos57135"></span><span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In those days I saw people in Judah treading winepresses on the Sabbath, bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and bringing wine, grapes, figs, and every sort of load into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. So I warned them against selling provisions on that day.<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And the Tyrʹi·ans who lived in the city were bringing in fish and all kinds of merchandise, selling them to the people of Judah and in Jerusalem on the Sabbath. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So I reprimanded the nobles of Judah and said to them: “What is this evil thing that you are doing, even profaning the Sabbath day? <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Was not this what your forefathers did, so that our God brought all this disaster on us and also on this city? Now you are adding to the burning anger against Israel by profaning the Sabbath.”</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So as soon as the shadows began to fall on the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I ordered that the doors be closed. I also said that they should not open them until after the Sabbath, and I stationed some of my own attendants at the gates so that no loads would be brought in on the Sabbath day. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So the traders and the sellers of all kinds of merchandise spent the night outside Jerusalem once or twice. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then I warned them and said to them: “Why are you spending the night in front of the wall? If you do it again, I will use force against you.” From that time on they did not come on the Sabbath.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And I told the Levites that they should regularly purify <span id="page687" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="687" data-before-text="687"></span>themselves and come and guard the gates to keep the Sabbath day holy. This, also, do remember to my credit, O my God, and show me pity according to your abundant loyal love.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos58798"></span><span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> In those days I also saw Jews who had married<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> Ashʹdod·ite, Amʹmon·ite, and Moʹab·ite women. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Half of their sons were speaking Ashʹdod·ite and half spoke the language of the different peoples, but none of them knew how to speak the language of the Jews. <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So I reprimanded them and called down a curse on them and struck some of the men and pulled out their hair and made them swear by God: “You should not give your daughters to their sons, and you should not accept any of their daughters for your sons or yourselves. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Was it not because of these that King Solʹo·mon of Israel sinned? Among the many nations there was no king like him; and he was loved by his God, so that God made him king over all Israel. But the foreign wives caused even him to sin. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Is it not something unheard of for you to commit this great evil in acting unfaithfully against our God by marrying foreign women?”</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> One of the sons of Joiʹa·da the son of E·liʹa·shib the high priest had become a son-in-law of San·balʹlat the Horʹo·nite. So I drove him away from me.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Do remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And I purified them from every foreign defilement, and I assigned duties to the priests and to the Levites, each to his own service, <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and arranged for the supply of the wood at appointed times and for the first ripe fruits.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb">Do remember me favorably,<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> O my God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:3</span></a> Or “mixed descent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:4</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:4</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:5</span></a> Or “dining hall.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:5</span></a> Or “tithe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:8</span></a> Or “dining hall.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:9</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:13</span></a> Or “scribe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:14</span></a> Or “guardianship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:15</span></a> Or possibly, “warned them on that day not to sell provisions.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:23</span></a> Or “had taken into their houses.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061120-split13.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 13:31</span></a> Or “for good.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
