<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Timothy 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061158"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav54.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav54_5.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos8892"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>Do not severely criticize an older man. On the contrary, appeal to him as a father, to younger men as brothers, <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> to older women as mothers, to younger women as sisters, with all chasteness.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos9089"></span><span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Give consideration to<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> widows who are truly widows.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let these learn first to practice godly devotion in their own household and to repay their parents and grandparents what is due them, for this is acceptable in God’s sight. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now the woman who is truly a widow and left destitute has put her hope in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But the one who gives herself to sensual gratification is dead though she is living. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So keep on giving these instructions,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> so that they may be irreprehensible. <span id="pos9684"></span><span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Certainly if anyone does not provide for those who are his own, and especially for those who are members of his household, he has disowned the faith and is worse than a person without faith.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> A widow is to be put on the list if she is not less than 60 years old, was the wife of one husband, <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> having a reputation for fine works, if she raised children, if she practiced hospitality, if she washed the feet of holy ones, if she assisted the afflicted, if she devoted herself to every good work.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> On the other hand, do not put younger widows on the list, for when their sexual desires come between them and the Christ, they want to marry. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And they will incur judgment because they have abandoned their first expression of faith.<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> At the same time they also learn to be unoccupied, going around from one house to another; yes, not only unoccupied but also gossipers and meddlers in other people’s affairs,<span id="page1591" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1591" data-before-text="1591"></span> talking about things they should not. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Therefore, I desire the younger widows to marry, to bear children, to manage a household, to give no opportunity to the opposer to criticize. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In fact, some have already been turned aside to follow Satan. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her assist them so that the congregation is not burdened. Then it can assist those who are truly widows.<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a></p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos11056"></span><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Let the elders who preside in a fine way be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard in speaking and teaching. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For the scripture says, “You must not muzzle a bull when it is threshing out the grain,” also, “The worker is worthy of his wages.” <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Do not accept an accusation against an older man<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> except on the evidence of two or three witnesses. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Reprove before all onlookers those who practice sin, as a warning to the rest.<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels to observe these instructions without any prejudice or partiality.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Never lay your hands hastily on any man;<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> neither become a sharer in the sins of others; keep yourself chaste.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos11805"></span><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Do not drink water any longer,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> but take a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent cases of sickness.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The sins of some men are publicly known, leading directly to judgment, but those of other men become evident later. <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> In the same way also, the fine works are publicly known and those that are otherwise cannot be kept hidden.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p69" data-pid="69"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:3</span></a> Lit., “Honor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p70" data-pid="70"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:3</span></a> Or “widows who are truly in need”; that is, with no one to support them.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p71" data-pid="71"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:7</span></a> Or “commands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p72" data-pid="72"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:12</span></a> Or “their previous promise.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p73" data-pid="73"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:16</span></a> Or “widows who are truly in need”; that is, with no one to support them.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p74" data-pid="74"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:19</span></a> Or “an elder.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p75" data-pid="75"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:20</span></a> Lit., “that the rest may have fear.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p76" data-pid="76"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:22</span></a> That is, do not appoint any man hastily.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p77" data-pid="77"><a href="1001061158-split5.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Tim. 5:23</span></a> Or “Stop drinking just water.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
