<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_13.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos40702"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel, and say to those who fabricate their own prophecies,<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> ‘Hear the word of Jehovah. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Woe to the stupid prophets, who follow their own spirit, when they have seen nothing! <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> O Israel, your prophets have become like foxes among the ruins. <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You will not go to the broken places in the stone walls to rebuild them for the house of Israel, so that Israel may keep standing in the battle in the day of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “They have seen false visions and foretold a lie, those who are saying, ‘The word of Jehovah is,’ when Jehovah himself has not sent them, and they have waited for their word to come true. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Is it not a false vision that you have seen and a lie that you have foretold when you say, ‘The word of Jehovah is,’ when I have not said anything?”’</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “‘Because you have spoken what is false and your visions are a lie, I am against you,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.” <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> My hand is against the prophets whose visions are false and who foretell a lie. They will not be among the people with whom I confide; nor will they be written in the registry of the house of Israel; nor will they return to the land of Israel; and you will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <span id="pos42126"></span><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> All of this is because they have led my people astray by saying, “There <span id="page1147" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1147" data-before-text="1147"></span>is peace!” when there is no peace. When a flimsy partition wall is built, they are plastering it with whitewash.’<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a></p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Tell those plastering with whitewash that it will fall. A torrential downpour will come, hailstones<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> will fall, and powerful windstorms will break it down. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And when the wall falls you will be asked, ‘Where is your coating of plaster?’</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘I will cause powerful windstorms to burst forth in my wrath, and a torrential downpour in my anger, and hailstones in destructive fury. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will tear down the wall that you plastered with whitewash and bring it down to the earth, and its foundation will be exposed. When the city falls, you will perish within her; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘When I fully unleash my wrath upon the wall and upon those who plastered it with whitewash, I will say to you: “The wall is no more, and those plastering it are no more. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The prophets of Israel are gone, those who prophesy to Jerusalem and who see visions of peace for her, when there is no peace,”’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos43363"></span><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “As for you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who fabricate their own prophecies, and prophesy against them. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Woe to the women who sew together bands for all arms<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> and make veils for heads of every size in order to hunt down people’s lives!<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> Are you hunting for the lives<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> of my people and trying to preserve your own lives?<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Will you profane me among my people for handfuls of barley and for scraps of bread, putting to death those<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> who should not die and keeping alive those<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> who should not live, doing so by your lies to my people, who listen to your lies?”’</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Here I am against your bands, O women, which you use to hunt down people<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> as though they were birds, and I will rip them from your arms and release those whom you are hunting down like birds. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I will rip away your veils and rescue my people out of your hand, and they will no longer be something for you to catch in the hunt; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For you have disheartened the righteous one with your falsehood when I was not causing him distress,<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> and you have strengthened the hands of the wicked one, so that he does not turn back from his bad way and stay alive. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Therefore, you women will no longer see false visions and practice divination; and I will rescue my people from your hand, and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p663" data-pid="663"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:2</span></a> Or “who prophesy out of their own heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p664" data-pid="664"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:10</span></a> That is, building a weak interior wall and with whitewash trying to make it look strong.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p665" data-pid="665"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:11</span></a> Lit., “and you, O hailstones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p666" data-pid="666"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:18</span></a> That is, magic bands worn around elbows or wrists.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p667" data-pid="667"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:18</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p668" data-pid="668"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:18</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p669" data-pid="669"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:18</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p670" data-pid="670"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:19</span></a> Or “the souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p671" data-pid="671"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:19</span></a> Or “the souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p672" data-pid="672"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:20</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p673" data-pid="673"><a href="1001061130-split13.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 13:22</span></a> Or “pain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
