<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_12.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="pos41710"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>Finally Samuel said to all Israel: “Here I have done<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> all that you asked of me, and I appointed a king to reign over you. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now here is the king who is leading<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> you! As for me, I have grown old and gray, and my sons are here with you, and I have led you from my youth until this day. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Here I am. Testify against me before Jehovah and before his anointed one: Whose bull or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded or crushed? From whose hand have I accepted a bribe<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> to make me look the other way? If I have, I will restore it to you.” <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> To this they said: “You have not defrauded us or crushed us or accepted anything at all from anyone’s hand.” <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he said to them: “Jehovah is a witness against you, and his anointed one is a witness this day that you have found nothing to accuse me of.”<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> To this they said: “He is a witness.”</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Samuel said to the people: “Jehovah, who used Moses and Aaron and who brought your forefathers up out of the land of Egypt, is a witness. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And now take your positions, and I will judge you before Jehovah in view of all the righteous acts that Jehovah has done for you and for your forefathers.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “As soon as Jacob had come into Egypt and your forefathers began calling to Jehovah for help, Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron to lead your forefathers out of Egypt and to cause them to dwell in this place. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But they forgot Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisʹe·ra the chief of the army of Haʹzor and into the hand of the Phi·lisʹtines and into the hand of the king of Moʹab, and they fought against them. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And they called to Jehovah for help and said, ‘We have sinned, for we have left Jehovah to serve the Baʹals and the Ashʹto·reth images; now rescue us out of the hand of our enemies so that we may serve you.’ <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Jehovah sent Jer·ub·baʹal and Beʹdan and Jephʹthah and Samuel and rescued you from the hand of the enemies all around you, so that you could live in security. <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When you saw that Naʹhash, the king of the Amʹmon·ites, had come against you, you kept saying to me, ‘No, we are <span id="page412" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="412" data-before-text="412"></span>determined to have a king over us!’ even though Jehovah your God is your King. <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now here is the king whom you have chosen, the one you asked for. Look! Jehovah has appointed a king over you. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> If you fear Jehovah and serve him and obey his voice and you do not rebel against the order of Jehovah, and both you and the king who reigns over you follow Jehovah your God, fine. <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But if you do not obey the voice of Jehovah and you rebel against the order of Jehovah, the hand of Jehovah will be against you and your fathers. <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now take your positions and see this great thing that Jehovah is doing before your eyes. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Is it not the wheat harvest today? I will call on Jehovah to make it thunder and rain; then know and understand what an evil thing you have done in the eyes of Jehovah in asking for a king for yourselves.”</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that Samuel called to Jehovah, and Jehovah made it thunder and rain on that day, so that all the people were greatly in fear of Jehovah and of Samuel. <span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And all the people said to Samuel: “Pray to Jehovah your God for your servants, as we do not want to die, for we have added to all our sins another evil by asking for a king.”</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Samuel said to the people: “Do not be afraid. You have indeed done all this evil. Only do not turn away from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart. <span id="pos45215"></span><span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Do not turn away to follow the empty things,<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> which are of no benefit and cannot rescue, because they are empty.<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> <span id="pos45337"></span><span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For the sake of his great name, Jehovah will not abandon his people, for Jehovah has taken it upon himself to make you his people. <span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> As for me, it is unthinkable for me to sin against Jehovah by ceasing to pray in your behalf, and I will continue to instruct you in the good and right way. <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Only fear Jehovah, and serve him faithfully<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> with all your heart, for see what great things he has done for you. <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But if you flagrantly do what is bad, you will be swept away, both you and your king.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:1</span></a> Lit., “listened to your voice as respects.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:2</span></a> Lit., “walking before.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:3</span></a> Or “hush money.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:5</span></a> Lit., “have not found anything in my hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:21</span></a> Or “unrealities.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:21</span></a> Or “unrealities.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061113-split12.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 12:24</span></a> Or “in truth.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
