<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 37</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">37</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_37.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p444" data-pid="444" class="p444 sb"><span id="pos156930"></span><span id="chapter37"></span><span id="chapter37_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>37</strong> </span>The hand of Jehovah was upon me, and by his spirit Jehovah took me and set me down in the middle of the valley <span id="page1186" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1186" data-before-text="1186"></span>plain, and it was full of bones. <span id="chapter37_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He had me pass all around them, and I saw that there were very many bones lying in the valley plain, and they were very dry. <span id="chapter37_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He asked me: “Son of man, can these bones come to life?” To that I said: “Sovereign Lord Jehovah, you are the one who knows.” <span id="chapter37_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So he said to me: “Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, ‘You dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah:</p>
<p id="p445" data-pid="445" class="p445 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says to these bones: “I will cause breath to enter you, and you will come to life. <span id="chapter37_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> I will put sinews and flesh on you, and I will cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you will come to life; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.”’”</p>
<p id="p446" data-pid="446" class="p446 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then I prophesied just as I had been commanded. As soon as I prophesied, there was a noise, a rattling sound, and the bones began to come together, bone to bone. <span id="chapter37_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then I saw sinews and flesh come on them, and skin covered over them. But there was still no breath in them.</p>
<p id="p447" data-pid="447" class="p447 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He then said to me: “Prophesy to the wind. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “From the four winds come in, O wind,<span id="footnotesource285"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote285">*</a> and blow upon these people who were killed, so that they may come to life.”’”</p>
<p id="p448" data-pid="448" class="p448 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So I prophesied just as he commanded me, and breath<span id="footnotesource286"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote286">*</a> came into them, and they began to live and to stand on their feet, an extremely large army.</p>
<p id="p449" data-pid="449" class="p449 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then he said to me: “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Here they are saying, ‘Our bones are dry, and our hope has perished. We are completely cut off.’ <span id="chapter37_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So prophesy and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “I will open your graves and raise you up from your graves, my people, and bring you to the land of Israel. <span id="chapter37_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you will have to know that I am Jehovah when I open your graves and when I raise you up out of your graves, O my people.”’ <span id="chapter37_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> ‘I will put my spirit in you and you will come to life, and I will settle you on your land; and you will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have spoken and I have done it,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p450" data-pid="450" class="p450 sb"><span id="pos159149"></span><span id="chapter37_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter37_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “And you, son of man, take a stick and write on it, ‘For Judah and for the people of Israel who are with him.’<span id="footnotesource287"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote287">*</a> Then take another stick and write on it, ‘For Joseph, the stick of Eʹphra·im, and all the house of Israel who are with him.’<span id="footnotesource288"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote288">*</a> <span id="chapter37_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then bring them close to each other so that they become just one stick in your hand. <span id="chapter37_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When your people<span id="footnotesource289"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote289">*</a> say to you, ‘Will you not tell us what these things mean?’ <span id="chapter37_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Eʹphra·im, and the tribes of Israel who are with him, and I will join them to the stick of Judah; and I will make them one stick, and they will become one in my hand.”’ <span id="chapter37_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The sticks that you write on should be in your hand for them to see.</p>
<p id="p451" data-pid="451" class="p451 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Then tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “I will take the Israelites from among the nations where they have gone, and I will collect them together from every direction and bring them <span id="page1187" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1187" data-before-text="1187"></span>to their land. <span id="pos160229"></span><span id="chapter37_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel, and one king will rule over all of them, and they will no longer be two nations; nor will they be divided any longer into two kingdoms. <span id="chapter37_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They will no longer defile themselves with their disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource290"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote290">*</a> and their detestable practices and all their transgressions. I will save them from all their unfaithfulness by which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. They will be my people, and I myself will be their God.</p>
<p id="p452" data-pid="452" class="p452 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “‘“My servant David will be their king, and they will all have one shepherd. They will walk in my judicial decisions and carefully observe my statutes. <span id="chapter37_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> They will dwell on the land that I gave to my servant, to Jacob, where your forefathers lived, and they will dwell on it forever, they and their children<span id="footnotesource291"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote291">*</a> and their children’s children; and David my servant will be their chieftain<span id="footnotesource292"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote292">*</a> forever.</p>
<p id="p453" data-pid="453" class="p453 sb"><span id="pos161149"></span><span id="chapter37_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘“And I will make a covenant of peace with them; it will be an eternal covenant with them. I will establish them and make them many and place my sanctuary among them forever. <span id="chapter37_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> My tent<span id="footnotesource293"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote293">*</a> will be with<span id="footnotesource294"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote294">*</a> them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. <span id="chapter37_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And the nations will have to know that I, Jehovah, am sanctifying Israel when my sanctuary is in their midst forever.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote285"><p id="p875" data-pid="875"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource285">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:9</span></a> Or “breath; spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote286"><p id="p876" data-pid="876"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource286">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:10</span></a> Or “spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote287"><p id="p877" data-pid="877"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource287">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:16</span></a> Or “who are his partners.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote288"><p id="p878" data-pid="878"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource288">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:16</span></a> Or “who are his partners.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote289"><p id="p879" data-pid="879"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource289">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:18</span></a> Lit., “the sons of your people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote290"><p id="p880" data-pid="880"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource290">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:23</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote291"><p id="p881" data-pid="881"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource291">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:25</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote292"><p id="p882" data-pid="882"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource292">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:25</span></a> Or “prince.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote293"><p id="p883" data-pid="883"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource293">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:27</span></a> Or “dwelling place; home.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote294"><p id="p884" data-pid="884"><a href="1001061130-split37.xhtml#footnotesource294">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 37:27</span></a> Or “over.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
