<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_6.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="pos18665"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>“Take care not to practice your righteousness in front of men to be noticed by them; otherwise you will have no reward with your Father who is in the heavens. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So when you make gifts of mercy,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> do not blow a trumpet ahead of you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be glorified by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But you, when making gifts of mercy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> so that your gifts of mercy may be in secret. Then your Father who looks on in secret will repay you.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="pos19260"></span><span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Also, when you pray, do not act like the hypocrites, for they like to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the main streets to be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But when you pray, go into your private room and, after shutting your door, pray to your Father who is in secret. Then your Father who looks on in secret will repay you. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When praying, do not say the same things over and over again as the people of the nations do, for they imagine they will get a hearing for their use of many words. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need even before you ask him.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="pos19912"></span><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “You must pray, then, this way:</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb">“‘Our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified.<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Let your Kingdom come. Let your will take place, as in heaven, also on earth. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Give us today our bread for this day; <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And do not bring us into temptation, but deliver<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> us from the wicked one.’</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> whereas if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos20503"></span><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “When you fast, stop becoming sad-faced like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> so they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But you, when fasting, put oil on your head and wash your face, <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> so that you may not appear to be fasting to men but only to your Father who is in secret. Then your Father who looks on in secret will repay you.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos20921"></span><span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Stop storing up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust consume and where thieves break in and steal. <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Rather, store up for <span id="page1313" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1313" data-before-text="1313"></span>yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal. <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “The lamp of the body is the eye. If, then, your eye is focused,<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> your whole body will be bright.<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But if your eye is envious,<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> your whole body will be dark. If the light that is in you is really darkness, how great that darkness is!</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “No one can slave for two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other. You cannot slave for God and for Riches.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="pos21705"></span><span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “On this account I say to you: Stop being anxious about your lives<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> as to what you will eat or what you will drink, or about your bodies as to what you will wear. Does not life<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> mean more than food and the body than clothing? <span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Observe intently the birds of heaven; they do not sow seed or reap or gather into storehouses, yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth more than they are? <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Who of you by being anxious can add one cubit<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> to his life span? <span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Also, why are you anxious about clothing? Take a lesson from the lilies of the field, how they grow; they do not toil, nor do they spin; <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> but I tell you that not even Solʹo·mon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these. <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now if this is how God clothes the vegetation of the field that is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much rather clothe you, you with little faith? <span id="chapter6_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So never be anxious and say, ‘What are we to eat?’ or, ‘What are we to drink?’ or, ‘What are we to wear?’ <span id="chapter6_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For all these are the things the nations are eagerly pursuing. Your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos22853"></span><span id="chapter6_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Keep on, then, seeking first the Kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you. <span id="chapter6_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> So never be anxious about the next day, for the next day will have its own anxieties. Each day has enough of its own troubles.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:2</span></a> Or “gifts to the poor.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38863">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:9</span></a> Or “be held sacred; be treated as holy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:13</span></a> Or “rescue.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:16</span></a> Or “they neglect their appearance.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:22</span></a> Or “clear.” Lit., “simple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:22</span></a> Or “full of light.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:23</span></a> Lit., “bad; wicked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:25</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:25</span></a> Or “the soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061144-split6.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 6:27</span></a> See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
