<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 38</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">38</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_38.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p346" data-pid="346" class="p346 sb"><span id="pos161130"></span><span id="chapter38"></span><span id="chapter38_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>38</strong> </span>He made the altar of burnt offering out of acacia wood. It was square, five cubits<span id="footnotesource262"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote262">*</a> long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high. <span id="chapter38_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he made its horns on its four corners. Its horns were one piece with it. Next he overlaid it with copper. <span id="chapter38_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> After that he made all the utensils of the altar, the buckets, the shovels, the bowls, the forks, and the fire holders. All its utensils he made of copper. <span id="chapter38_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He also made a grating for the altar, a network of copper, under its rim, down toward its center. <span id="chapter38_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He cast four rings on the four corners near the grating of copper, as holders for the poles. <span id="chapter38_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After that he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with copper. <span id="chapter38_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He inserted the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar for carrying it. He made the altar in the form of a hollow chest of planks.</p>
<p id="p347" data-pid="347" class="p347 sb"><span id="pos161960"></span><span id="chapter38_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he made the basin of copper and its copper stand; he used the mirrors<span id="footnotesource263"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote263">*</a> of the women who were organized to serve at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</p>
<p id="p348" data-pid="348" class="p348 sb"><span id="pos162122"></span><span id="chapter38_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then he made the courtyard. For the south side of the courtyard, facing south, he made the hanging curtains of fine twisted linen, for 100 cubits. <span id="chapter38_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> There were 20 pillars and 20 socket pedestals of copper, and the hooks of the pillars and their connectors<span id="footnotesource264"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote264">*</a> were of silver. <span id="chapter38_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Also, for the north side, there were 100 cubits of hanging curtains. Their 20 pillars and their <span id="page166" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="166" data-before-text="166"></span>20 socket pedestals were of copper. The hooks of the pillars and their connectors<span id="footnotesource265"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote265">*</a> were of silver. <span id="chapter38_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But for the west side, the hanging curtains were for 50 cubits. There were ten pillars and ten socket pedestals, and the hooks of the pillars and their connectors<span id="footnotesource266"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote266">*</a> were of silver. <span id="chapter38_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The width of the east side, toward the sunrising, was 50 cubits. <span id="chapter38_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> There were 15 cubits of hanging curtains on the one wing, with three pillars and three socket pedestals. <span id="chapter38_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And for the other wing on the other side of the entrance of the courtyard, there were hanging curtains for 15 cubits, with three pillars and three socket pedestals. <span id="chapter38_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> All the hanging curtains around the courtyard were of fine twisted linen. <span id="chapter38_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The socket pedestals for the pillars were of copper, the hooks of the pillars and their connectors<span id="footnotesource267"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote267">*</a> were of silver, the tops were overlaid with silver, and there were silver fasteners for all the pillars of the courtyard.</p>
<p id="p349" data-pid="349" class="p349 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The screen<span id="footnotesource268"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote268">*</a> of the entrance of the courtyard was woven of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen. It was 20 cubits long and 5 cubits high, the same height as the hanging curtains of the courtyard. <span id="chapter38_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Their four pillars and their four socket pedestals were made of copper. Their hooks and connectors<span id="footnotesource269"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote269">*</a> were of silver, and their tops were overlaid with silver. <span id="chapter38_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> All the tent pins for the tabernacle and around the courtyard were of copper.</p>
<p id="p350" data-pid="350" class="p350 sb"><span id="pos163947"></span><span id="chapter38_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The following is the inventory of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the Testimony, which was inventoried at the command of Moses, as the responsibility of the Levites under the direction of Ithʹa·mar the son of Aaron the priest. <span id="chapter38_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Bezʹal·el the son of Uʹri the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah did all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="chapter38_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> With him was O·hoʹli·ab the son of A·hisʹa·mach of the tribe of Dan, a craftsman and an embroiderer and a weaver of the blue thread, the purple wool, the scarlet material, and the fine linen.</p>
<p id="p351" data-pid="351" class="p351 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> All the gold that was used for all the work of the holy place equaled the amount of the gold of the wave offering, 29 talents<span id="footnotesource270"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote270">*</a> and 730 shekels<span id="footnotesource271"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote271">*</a> by the standard shekel of the holy place.<span id="footnotesource272"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote272">*</a> <span id="chapter38_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And the silver of the ones registered of the assembly was 100 talents and 1,775 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place.<span id="footnotesource273"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote273">*</a> <span id="chapter38_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The half shekel for each individual was half a shekel by the standard shekel of the holy place<span id="footnotesource274"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote274">*</a> for every man who was among those registered from 20 years of age and up, amounting to 603,550.</p>
<p id="p352" data-pid="352" class="p352 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The casting of the socket pedestals of the holy place and the socket pedestals of the curtain amounted to 100 talents; 100 socket pedestals equaled 100 talents, one talent for each socket pedestal. <span id="chapter38_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> From the 1,775 shekels, he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their tops and joined them together.</p>
<p id="p353" data-pid="353" class="p353 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The copper of the offering<span id="footnotesource275"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote275">*</a> was 70 talents and 2,400 shekels. <span id="chapter38_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> With this he made the socket pedestals of the entrance of the tent of meeting, the copper altar and its copper grating, all the utensils of the altar, <span id="chapter38_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> the socket pedestals <span id="page167" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="167" data-before-text="167"></span>around the courtyard, the socket pedestals of the entrance of the courtyard, and all the tent pins of the tabernacle and all the tent pins around the courtyard.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote262"><p id="p641" data-pid="641"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource262">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:1</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote263"><p id="p642" data-pid="642"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource263">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:8</span></a> That is, highly polished metal mirrors.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote264"><p id="p643" data-pid="643"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource264">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:10</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for ­attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote265"><p id="p644" data-pid="644"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource265">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:11</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote266"><p id="p645" data-pid="645"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource266">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:12</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote267"><p id="p646" data-pid="646"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource267">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:17</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote268"><p id="p647" data-pid="647"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource268">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:18</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote269"><p id="p648" data-pid="648"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource269">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:19</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote270"><p id="p649" data-pid="649"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource270">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:24</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote271"><p id="p650" data-pid="650"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource271">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:24</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote272"><p id="p651" data-pid="651"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource272">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:24</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote273"><p id="p652" data-pid="652"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource273">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:25</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote274"><p id="p653" data-pid="653"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource274">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:26</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote275"><p id="p654" data-pid="654"><a href="1001061106-split38.xhtml#footnotesource275">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 38:29</span></a> Or “wave offering.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
