<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_21.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="pos83113"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>“These are the judicial decisions that you are to convey to them:</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="pos83185"></span><span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “If you buy a Hebrew slave, he will serve as a slave for six years, but in the seventh year, he will be set free without paying anything. <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> If he came by himself, he will go out by himself. If he is the husband of a wife, then his wife must go out with him. <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children will become her master’s, and he will go out by himself. <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But if the slave should insist and say, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my sons; I do not want to be set free,’ <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> his master must bring him before the true God. Then he will bring him up against the door or the doorpost, and his master will pierce his ear through with an awl, and he will be his slave for life.</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “If a man sells his daughter as a slave, she will not go free the same way that a slave man does. <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> If her master is not pleased with her and he does not designate her as a concubine but causes her to be purchased by someone else,<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> he will not be entitled to sell her to foreigners, for he has betrayed her. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> If he selects her for his son, he is to grant her the rights of a daughter. <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> If he takes another wife for himself, the sustenance, the clothing, and the marriage due of the first wife are not to be diminished. <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If he will not render these three things to her, then she is to go free without paying any money.</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="page141" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="141" data-before-text="141"></span><span id="pos84565"></span><span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Anyone who strikes a man so that he dies must be put to death. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But if he does it unintentionally and the true God lets it happen, I will designate for you a place where he can flee. <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> If a man becomes very angry with his fellow man and he deliberately kills him, the man must die even if you have to take him from my altar. <span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> One who strikes his father or his mother must be put to death.</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “If anyone kidnaps a man and sells him or is caught holding him, he must be put to death.</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “Anyone who curses<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> his father or his mother must be put to death.</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “This is what should happen if men quarrel and one strikes his fellow man with a stone or a fist<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> and he does not die but is confined to his bed: <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> If he is able to get up and walk around outdoors with the aid of a staff, then the one who struck him must be free from punishment. He will only make compensation for the time the injured man lost from his work until he is completely healed.</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “If a man strikes his slave man or his slave girl with a stick and that one dies by his hand, that one must be avenged. <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> However, if he survives for one or two days, he is not to be avenged, because he is someone bought with his owner’s money.</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “If men should struggle with each other and they hurt a pregnant woman and she gives birth prematurely<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> but no fatality<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> results, the offender must pay the damages imposed on him by the husband of the woman; and he must pay it through the judges. <span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But if a fatality does occur, then you must give life for life,<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> <span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, <span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> burn for burn, wound for wound, blow for blow.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “If a man strikes the eye of his slave man or the eye of his slave girl and he destroys it, he is to let the slave go free in compensation for his eye. <span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And if he knocks out the tooth of his slave man or of his slave girl, he is to let the slave go free in compensation for his tooth.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos86568"></span><span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “If a bull gores a man or a woman and that one dies, the bull must be stoned to death and its meat is not to be eaten; but the owner of the bull is free from punishment. <span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But if a bull was in the habit of goring and its owner had been warned but he would not keep it under guard and it killed a man or a woman, the bull is to be stoned and its owner is also to be put to death. <span id="chapter21_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> If a ransom<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> is imposed on him, he must give as the redemption price for his life<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> all that may be imposed on him. <span id="chapter21_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Whether it gored a son or a daughter, it is to be done to the bull’s owner according to this judicial decision. <span id="chapter21_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> If the bull gored a slave man or a slave girl, he will give the price of 30 shekels<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> to that one’s master, and the bull will be stoned to death.</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “If a man uncovers or digs a pit and does not cover it and a bull or a donkey falls into it, <span id="chapter21_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> the owner of the pit is to make compensation. He is to pay the price to its owner, and the dead animal will become his. <span id="chapter21_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> If a man’s bull hurts another’s bull and it dies, then they <span id="page142" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="142" data-before-text="142"></span>must sell the live bull and divide the price paid for it; they should also divide the dead animal. <span id="chapter21_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Or if it was known that a bull had been in the habit of goring but its owner would not keep it under guard, he must make compensation with bull for bull, and the dead one will become his own.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p487" data-pid="487"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:8</span></a> Lit., “to be redeemed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p488" data-pid="488"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:17</span></a> Or “calls down evil upon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p489" data-pid="489"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:18</span></a> Or possibly, “a tool.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p490" data-pid="490"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:22</span></a> Lit., “and her children come out.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p491" data-pid="491"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:22</span></a> Or “serious injury.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p492" data-pid="492"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:23</span></a> Or “soul for soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p493" data-pid="493"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:30</span></a> Or “reparation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p494" data-pid="494"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:30</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p495" data-pid="495"><a href="1001061106-split21.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 21:32</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
