<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_18.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="pos77636"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>As soon as David had finished speaking to Saul, Jonʹa·than and David became bound together in close friendship,<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> and Jonʹa·than began to love him as himself.<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> From that day, Saul kept David with him, and he did not allow him to return to his father’s house. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And Jonʹa·than and David made a covenant, because he loved him as himself.<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jonʹa·than took off the sleeveless coat that he wore and gave it to David, along with his gear, his sword, his bow, and his belt. <span id="pos78120"></span><span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> David began going out and was successful<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> wherever Saul would send him. So Saul put him in charge of the fighting men, and this pleased all the people and the servants of Saul.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When David and the others would return from striking down the Phi·lisʹtines, the women would come out from all the cities of Israel with song and dances <span id="page423" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="423" data-before-text="423"></span>to meet King Saul with tambourines, with rejoicing, and with lutes. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The women who were celebrating would sing:</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sz">“Saul has struck down his thousands,</p><p data-pid="137" class="p137 sz">And David his tens of thousands.”</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Saul became very angry, and this song displeased him, for he said: “They have credited David with tens of thousands, but to me they have credited thousands. The only thing left to give him is the kingship!” <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> From that day on, Saul was always looking at David suspiciously.</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos78939"></span><span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The next day a bad spirit from God gripped Saul, and he started to act strangely<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> inside the house, while David was playing music on the harp as on other occasions. Saul had a spear in his hand, <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and he hurled the spear, saying to himself: ‘I will pin David to the wall!’ But David escaped from him twice. <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Saul was afraid of David because Jehovah was with him but had departed from Saul. <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So Saul removed him from his presence and appointed him as chief of a thousand, and David would lead the army into battle.<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> David continued to have success<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> in all he did, and Jehovah was with him. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And when Saul saw that he was very successful, he became afraid of him. <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he would lead them in their campaigns.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Saul later said to David: “Here is my oldest daughter Meʹrab. I will give her to you as a wife. However, you should continue to display your courage for me and fight the wars of Jehovah.” For Saul said to himself: ‘Do not let my hand come against him. Let the hand of the Phi·lisʹtines strike him.’ <span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At this David said to Saul: “Who am I and who are my relatives, my father’s family in Israel, for me to become son-in-law to the king?” <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, when the time came to give Saul’s daughter Meʹrab to David, she had already been given to be the wife of Aʹdri·el the Me·holʹath·ite.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="pos80348"></span><span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now Saul’s daughter Miʹchal was in love with David, and it was reported to Saul, and this pleased him. <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So Saul said: “I will give her to him to serve as a snare to him, so that the hand of the Phi·lisʹtines may come upon him.” Saul then said to David a second time: “You will form a marriage alliance with me<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> today.” <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Further, Saul ordered his servants: “Speak to David secretly and say, ‘Look! The king is pleased with you, and all his servants are fond of you. So now form a marriage alliance with the king.’” <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When Saul’s servants told David these things, David said: “Is it a trivial matter to you to form a marriage alliance with the king when I am a man poor and lightly esteemed?” <span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then Saul’s servants reported to him: “These are the words that David spoke.”</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At that Saul said: “This is what you should say to David, ‘The king does not want any bride price except 100 foreskins of the Phi·lisʹtines, to take revenge on the enemies of the king.’” For Saul was scheming to have David fall by the hand of the Phi·lisʹtines. <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So his servants reported these words to David, and it was pleasing to David to form a marriage alliance with the king. Before the allotted time, <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> David <span id="page424" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="424" data-before-text="424"></span>went with his men and struck down 200 Phi·lisʹtine men, and David brought the full number of their foreskins to the king, to form a marriage alliance with the king. Therefore, Saul gave him his daughter Miʹchal as a wife. <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Saul realized that Jehovah was with David and that his daughter Miʹchal loved him. <span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> This made Saul even more afraid of David, and Saul became an enemy of David for the rest of his life.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The princes of the Phi·lisʹtines would go out to battle, but as often as they went out, David was more successful<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> than all the servants of Saul; and his name was highly esteemed.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:1</span></a> Or “Jonathan’s soul became bound with David’s soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:1</span></a> Or “as his own soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:3</span></a> Or “as his own soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:5</span></a> Or “acted wisely.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:10</span></a> Or “behaved like a prophet.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:13</span></a> Lit., “and he went out and came in before the people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p341" data-pid="341"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:14</span></a> Or “act wisely.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p342" data-pid="342"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:21</span></a> Or “will become my son-in-law.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p343" data-pid="343"><a href="1001061113-split18.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 18:30</span></a> Or “acted more wisely.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
