<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ruth 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061112"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ruth</a>  <a href="biblechapternav8.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav8_3.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos7664"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Na·oʹmi, her mother-in-law, now said to her: “My daughter, should I not look for a home<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> for you, so that it may go well with you? <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Is not Boʹaz our relative? He is the one whose young women you were with. Tonight he is winnowing barley at the threshing floor. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So wash yourself and rub on some perfumed oil; then dress up<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> and go down to the threshing floor. Do not make your presence known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When he lies down, take note of the place where he lies down; then go and uncover his feet and lie down. He will tell you what you should do.”</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos8265"></span><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At that she replied: “All that you say to me I will do.” <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So she went down to the threshing floor and did all that her mother-in-law had instructed her to do. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Meanwhile, Boʹaz ate and drank and was feeling good at heart. Then he went to lie down at the end of the grain heap. After that she quietly came and uncovered his feet and lay down. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At midnight the man began to shiver, and he leaned forward and saw a woman lying at his feet. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He said: “Who are you?” She replied: “I am Ruth, your servant. Spread out your garment<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> over your servant, for you are a repurchaser.” <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At that he said: “May Jehovah bless you, my daughter. You have shown your loyal love more in this last instance than in the first instance, by not going after the young men, whether poor or rich. <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And now, my daughter, have no fear. I will do for you everything that you say, for everyone in the city<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> knows that you are an excellent woman. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> While it is true that I am a repurchaser, there is a repurchaser more closely related than I am. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Stay here tonight, and if he will repurchase you in the morning, fine! Let him repurchase you. But if he does not want to repurchase you, I will then repurchase you myself, as <span id="page395" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="395" data-before-text="395"></span>surely as Jehovah lives. Lie down here until the morning.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So she lay at his feet until the morning and then got up before it was light enough for anyone to be recognized. He then said: “Do not let it be known that a woman came to the threshing floor.” <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He also said: “Bring the cloak that you are wearing, and hold it out.” So she held it out, and he put six measures<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> of barley in it and put it on her, after which he went into the city.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos9954"></span><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> She went her way to her mother-in-law, who now said: “How did it go for you,<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> my daughter?” She told her everything that the man had done for her. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> She added: “He gave me these six measures of barley and said to me, ‘Do not go empty-handed to your mother-in-law.’” <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that she said: “Sit here, my daughter, until you learn how the matter will turn out, for the man will not rest until he settles the matter today.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p47" data-pid="47"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:1</span></a> Lit., “resting-place.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p48" data-pid="48"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:3</span></a> Or “put on your outer garments.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p49" data-pid="49"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:9</span></a> Or “the skirt of your garment.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p50" data-pid="50"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:11</span></a> Lit., “all the gate of my people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p51" data-pid="51"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:15</span></a> Possibly six seah measures, or about 44 L (40 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p52" data-pid="52"><a href="1001061112-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 3:16</span></a> Lit., “Who are you?”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
