<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061142"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_14.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos30679"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>“Look! The day is coming, a day belonging to Jehovah, when the spoil from you<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> will be divided in your midst. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I will gather all the nations <span id="page1298" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1298" data-before-text="1298"></span>against Jerusalem for the war; and the city will be captured and the houses plundered and the women raped. And half of the city will go into exile, but the remaining ones of the people will not be cut off from the city.</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Jehovah will go out and war against those nations as when he fights in the day of a battle. <span id="pos31151"></span><span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split in half, from east<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> to west,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> forming a very great valley; and half of the mountain will move to the north, and half of it to the south. <span id="pos31422"></span><span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You will flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains will extend all the way to Aʹzel. You will have to flee, just as you fled because of the earthquake in the days of King Uz·ziʹah of Judah. And Jehovah my God will come, and all the holy ones will be with him.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “In that day there will be no precious light—things will be congealed.<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And it will become one day that is known as belonging to Jehovah. It will not be day, nor will it be night; and at evening time there will be light. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In that day living waters will flow out from Jerusalem, half of them toward the eastern sea<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> and half of them toward the western sea.<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> It will happen in summer and in winter. <span id="pos32124"></span><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And Jehovah will be King over all the earth. In that day Jehovah will be one, and his name one.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “The whole land will become like the Arʹa·bah, from Geʹba to Rimʹmon south of Jerusalem; and she will rise and be inhabited in her place, from the Gate of Benjamin all the way to the site of the First Gate, all the way to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Ha·nanʹel all the way to the winepresses<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> of the king. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And people will inhabit her; and there will never again be a curse of destruction, and Jerusalem will be inhabited in security.</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos32693"></span><span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “And this is the scourge with which Jehovah will scourge all the peoples who wage war against Jerusalem: Their flesh will rot away while they stand on their feet, their eyes will rot away in their sockets, and their tongues will rot away in their mouths.</p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “In that day confusion from Jehovah will be widespread among them; and each one will grab hold of the hand of his companion, and his hand will come against the hand of his companion.<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Judah will also be involved in the war at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered, gold and silver and garments in vast quantity.</p>
<p id="p154" data-pid="154" class="p154 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “And a scourge like that scourge will also come against the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and all the livestock that are in those camps.</p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos33477"></span><span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Everyone who is left remaining out of all the nations that come against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to bow down to<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> the King, Jehovah of armies, and to celebrate the Festival of Booths.<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But if anyone among the families of the earth does not go up to Jerusalem to bow down to the King, Jehovah of armies, no rain will fall <span id="page1299" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1299" data-before-text="1299"></span>on them. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And if the family of Egypt does not come up and does not come in, they will have no rain. Instead, they will have the scourge with which Jehovah scourges the nations that do not come up to celebrate the Festival of Booths. <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> This will be the punishment for the sin of Egypt and the sin of all the nations that do not come up to celebrate the Festival of Booths.</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="pos34218"></span><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “In that day the words ‘Holiness belongs to Jehovah!’ will be written on the bells of the horses. And the cooking pots<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> in the house of Jehovah will be like the bowls before the altar. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And every cooking pot<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy and will belong to Jehovah of armies, and all those who are sacrificing will come in and use some of them for boiling. In that day there will no longer be a Caʹnaan·ite<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> in the house of Jehovah of armies.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:1</span></a> That is, the city referred to in vs. 2.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:4</span></a> Or “the sunrise.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:4</span></a> Lit., “the sea.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:6</span></a> Or “immobilized,” as if stiffened by cold.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:8</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:8</span></a> That is, the Mediterranean Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:10</span></a> Or “press vats.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:13</span></a> Or “and one man will attack another.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:16</span></a> Or “worship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:16</span></a> Or “Temporary Shelters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:20</span></a> Or “wide-mouthed cooking pots.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:21</span></a> Or “wide-mouthed cooking pot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 14:21</span></a> Or possibly, “trader.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
