<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_8.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos18640"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Now we want you to know, brothers, about the undeserved kindness of God that has been granted to the congregations of Mac·e·doʹni·a. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> During a great test under affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty made the riches of their generosity abound.<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For it was according to their means, yes, I testify, it was even beyond their means, <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> while they on their own initiative kept earnestly begging us for the privilege of kindly giving, to have a share in the relief ministry for the holy ones. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And not merely as we had hoped, but first they gave themselves to the Lord and to us through God’s will. <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So we encouraged Titus that, just as he had initiated this work among you, he should also complete this same kind giving on your part. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Nevertheless, just as you abound in everything, <span id="page1551" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1551" data-before-text="1551"></span>in faith and word and knowledge and all earnestness and in our love for you, may you also abound in this kind giving.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I am saying this, not to command you, but to make you aware of the earnestness of others and to test the genuineness of your love. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For you know the undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ, that although he was rich, he became poor for your sake, so that you might become rich through his poverty.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And in this I give my opinion: This is for your benefit, seeing that already a year ago you not only initiated the action but also showed your desire to do it. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So now, also complete what you started to do, so that your readiness to act may be completed according to the means you have available. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what a person does not have. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For I do not want to make it easy for others, but difficult for you; <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> but that by means of an equalizing, your surplus at the present time might offset their need, so that their surplus might also offset your deficiency, that there may be an equalizing. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Just as it is written: “The person with much did not have too much, and the person with little did not have too little.”</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos20745"></span><span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now thanks be to God for putting the same earnest concern for you in the heart of Titus, <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> because he has indeed responded to the encouragement, but being very eager, he is coming to you on his own initiative. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But we are sending along with him the brother whose praise in connection with the good news has spread through all the congregations. <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Not only that, but he was also appointed by the congregations to be our traveling companion as we administer this kind gift for the glory of the Lord and in proof of our readiness to assist. <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Thus we are avoiding having any man find fault with us in connection with this liberal contribution that we are administering. <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For we ‘care for everything honestly, not only in the sight of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> but also in the sight of men.’</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Moreover, we are sending with them our brother whom we have often tested and found to be diligent in many matters, but now much more diligent on account of his great confidence in you. <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> If, though, there is any question about Titus, he is my companion<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> and a fellow worker for your interests; or if there are questions about our brothers, they are apostles of congregations and a glory of Christ. <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So demonstrate the proof of your love to them, and show the congregations why we boasted about you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p123" data-pid="123"><a href="1001061151-split8.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 8:2</span></a> Or “overflow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p124" data-pid="124"><a href="1001061151-split8.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 8:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p125" data-pid="125"><a href="1001061151-split8.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 8:23</span></a> Lit., “sharer.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
