<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_17.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="pos97481"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>Now E·liʹjah<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> the Tishʹbite, an inhabitant of Gilʹe·ad, said to Aʹhab: “As surely as Jehovah the God of Israel whom I serve<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> is living, during these years there will be no dew or rain except by my word!”</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos97693"></span><span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah came to him, saying: <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Leave here, and turn eastward and hide at the Valley of Cheʹrith,<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a> east of the Jordan. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You should drink from the stream, and I will command the ravens to supply you food there.” <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He immediately went and did according to the word of Jehovah; he went and stayed by the Valley of Cheʹrith,<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> east of the Jordan. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And the ravens were bringing him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the stream. <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But after some days, the stream ran dry, because there was no rain in the land.</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="pos98277"></span><span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah then came to him: <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Rise up, go to Zarʹe·phath, which belongs to Siʹdon, and stay there. Look! I will command a widow there to supply you with food.” <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So he rose up and went to Zarʹe·phath. When he came to the entrance of the city, there was a widow gathering pieces of wood. So he called to her and said: “Please, bring me a little water in a cup so that I may drink.” <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> As she went to get it, he called to her: “Please, bring me a piece of bread in your hand.” <span id="page512" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="512" data-before-text="512"></span><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At this she said: “As surely as Jehovah your God is living, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the large jar and a little oil in the small jar. Now I am gathering a few pieces of wood, and I will go in and make something for me and my son. After we have eaten, we will die.”</p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then E·liʹjah said to her: “Do not be afraid. Go in and do as you said. But first make me a small round loaf of bread with what is there, and bring it out to me. Then you can make something afterward for you and your son. <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘The large jar of flour will not run out, and the small jar of oil will not run dry until the day Jehovah makes it rain on the surface of the ground.’” <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So she went and did as E·liʹjah said, and she together with him and her household ate for many days. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The large jar of flour did not run out, and the small jar of oil did not run dry, according to Jehovah’s word that he had spoken through E·liʹjah.</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="pos99773"></span><span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After these things, the son of the woman who owned the house fell sick, and his sickness became so severe that he stopped breathing. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At this she said to E·liʹjah: “What do you have against me,<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> O man of the true God? Have you come to remind me of my guilt and to put my son to death?” <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But he said to her: “Give me your son.” Then he took him from her arms and carried him up to the roof chamber, where he was staying, and he laid him on his own bed. <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He called out to Jehovah: “O Jehovah my God, are you also bringing harm to the widow with whom I am staying by putting her son to death?” <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then he stretched himself out over the child three times and called out to Jehovah: “O Jehovah my God, please, let this child’s life<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> come back into him.” <span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah listened to E·liʹjah’s request, and the life<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> of the child came back into him, and he revived.<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> E·liʹjah took the child and brought him down from the roof chamber into the house and gave him to his mother; and E·liʹjah said: “See, your son is alive.” <span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> At that the woman said to E·liʹjah: “Now I know that you truly are a man of God and that Jehovah’s word in your mouth is truth.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:1</span></a> Meaning “My God Is Jehovah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:1</span></a> Lit., “before whom I stand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:3</span></a> Or “Wadi Cherith.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:5</span></a> Or “Wadi Cherith.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:18</span></a> Or “What do I have to do with you, . . .?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:21</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p427" data-pid="427"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:22</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p428" data-pid="428"><a href="1001061115-split17.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 17:22</span></a> Or “came to life.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
