<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_4.xhtml">1 - 12</a></p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos14993"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>When Saul’s son Ish-boʹsheth<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> heard that Abʹner had died in Hebʹron, his courage failed him<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> and all the Israelites were disturbed. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> There were two men in charge of the marauder bands that belonged to the son of Saul: one was named Baʹa·nah and the other Reʹchab. They were sons of Rimʹmon the Be·erʹoth·ite, of the tribe of Benjamin. (For Be·erʹoth too used <span id="page447" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="447" data-before-text="447"></span>to be counted as part of Benjamin. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The Be·erʹoth·ites ran away to Gitʹta·im, and they are foreign residents there down to this day.)</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now Saul’s son Jonʹa·than had a son whose feet were crippled.<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> He was five years old when the report about Saul and Jonʹa·than came from Jezʹre·el, and his nurse picked him up and fled, but as she was fleeing in panic, he fell and was crippled. His name was Me·phibʹo·sheth.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The sons of Rimʹmon the Be·erʹoth·ite, Reʹchab and Baʹa·nah, went to the house of Ish-boʹsheth during the hot part of the day, as he was taking his midday rest. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They went into the house as if they were getting wheat, and they struck him in the abdomen; then Reʹchab and his brother Baʹa·nah escaped. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When they had entered the house, he was lying on his bed in his bedroom, and they struck him and put him to death, after which they cut off his head. Then they took his head and walked all night long on the road to the Arʹa·bah. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And they brought the head of Ish-boʹsheth to David at Hebʹron and said to the king: “Here is the head of Ish-boʹsheth the son of Saul your enemy who sought your life.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> This day Jehovah gives to my lord the king revenge on Saul and his descendants.”</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="pos16580"></span><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> However, David answered Reʹchab and his brother Baʹa·nah, the sons of Rimʹmon the Be·erʹoth·ite, and said to them: “As surely as Jehovah is living, the one who rescued me<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> out of all distress, <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> when someone reported to me, ‘Here Saul is dead,’ and he thought he was bringing me good news, I took hold of him and killed him in Zikʹlag. That was the messenger’s reward he received from me! <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> How much more so when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed! Should I not require his blood from your hands and rid the earth of you?” <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> David then ordered the young men to kill them. They cut off their hands and feet and hung them by the pool in Hebʹron. But they took the head of Ish-boʹsheth and buried it in the burial place of Abʹner in Hebʹron.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p275" data-pid="275"><a href="1001061114-split4.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 4:1</span></a> Lit., “the son of Saul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p276" data-pid="276"><a href="1001061114-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 4:1</span></a> Lit., “his hands became feeble.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061114-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 4:4</span></a> Or “lame.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061114-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 4:8</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061114-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 4:9</span></a> Or “redeemed my soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
