<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 35</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">35</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_35.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p430" data-pid="430" class="p430 sb"><span id="pos147933"></span><span id="chapter35"></span><span id="chapter35_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>35</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter35_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward the mountainous region of Seʹir, and prophesy against it. <span id="chapter35_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Say to it, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, O mountainous region of Seʹir, and I will stretch out my hand against you and make you a desolate wasteland. <span id="chapter35_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I will turn your cities into ruins, and you will become a desolate wasteland; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter35_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For you showed unrelenting hostility, and you gave the Israelites over to the sword at the time of their disaster, at the time of their final punishment.”’</p>
<p id="p431" data-pid="431" class="p431 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘Therefore as surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will prepare you for bloodshed, and bloodshed will pursue you. Since it was blood that you hated, bloodshed will pursue you. <span id="chapter35_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> I will make the mountainous region of Seʹir a desolate wasteland, and I will cut off from it anyone passing through and anyone returning. <span id="chapter35_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I will fill its mountains with the slain; and those slain by the sword will fall on your hills, in your valleys, and in all your streams. <span id="chapter35_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities will not be inhabited; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p432" data-pid="432" class="p432 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Because you said, ‘These two nations and these two lands will become mine, and we will take possession of both,’ even though Jehovah himself was there, <span id="chapter35_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> ‘therefore as surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will deal with you according to the same anger and jealousy that you displayed in your hatred toward them; and I will make myself known among them when I judge you. <span id="chapter35_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> You will then have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have heard all the insolent things you spoke against the mountains of Israel when you said, “They have been laid desolate and have been given to us to devour.”<span id="footnotesource279"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote279">*</a> <span id="chapter35_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you spoke arrogantly against me, and you multiplied your words against me. I heard it all.’</p>
<p id="p433" data-pid="433" class="p433 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘The whole earth will rejoice when I will make you a desolate wasteland. <span id="chapter35_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Just as you rejoiced when the inheritance of the house of Israel was laid desolate, that is how I will deal with you. You will become a desolate ruin, O mountainous region of Seʹir, yes, all of Eʹdom; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote279"><p id="p869" data-pid="869"><a href="1001061130-split35.xhtml#footnotesource279">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 35:12</span></a> Lit., “as food.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
