<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_9.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos22069"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>Now concerning the ministry that is for the holy ones, it is not really necessary for me to write you, <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> for I know your willingness about which I am boasting to the Mac·e·doʹni·ans, that A·chaʹia has been ready now for a year, and your zeal has stirred up the majority of them. <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But I am sending the brothers, so that our boasting about you might not prove empty in this respect and that you may really be ready, just as I said you would be. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Otherwise, if the Mac·e·doʹni·ans should come with me and find you not ready, we—not to mention you—should be put to shame by our confidence in you. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So I thought it necessary to encourage the brothers to come to you ahead of time and to <span id="page1552" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1552" data-before-text="1552"></span>get your promised bountiful gift ready in advance, so that this might be ready as a generous gift, and not as something extorted.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But as to this, whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. <span id="pos23026"></span><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Moreover, God is able to cause all his undeserved kindness to abound toward you so that you are always completely self-sufficient in everything, as well as having plenty for every good work. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> (Just as it is written: “He has distributed widely;<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> he has given to the poor. His righteousness continues forever.” <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now the One who abundantly supplies seed to the sower and bread for eating will supply and multiply the seed for you to sow and will increase the harvest of your righteousness.) <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> In everything you are being enriched for every sort of generosity, which produces through us an expression of thanks to God; <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> because the ministry of this public service is not only to provide well for the needs of the holy ones but also to be rich in many expressions of thanks to God. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Through the proof that this relief ministry gives, they glorify God because you are submissive to the good news about the Christ, as you publicly declared, and because you are generous in your contribution to them and to all. <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And with supplication for you, they express affection for you because of the surpassing undeserved kindness of God upon you.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Thanks be to God for his indescribable free gift.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p126" data-pid="126"><a href="1001061151-split9.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 9:7</span></a> Or “reluctantly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p127" data-pid="127"><a href="1001061151-split9.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 9:9</span></a> Or “generously.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
