<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 43</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">43</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_43.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p1112" data-pid="1112" class="p1112 sb"><span id="pos184504"></span><span id="chapter43"></span><span id="chapter43_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>43</strong> </span>When Jeremiah had finished speaking to all the people all these words from Jehovah their God, every single word that Jehovah their God had sent him to tell them, <span id="chapter43_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah the son of Ho·shaiʹah, Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah, and all the presumptuous men said to Jeremiah: “What you are saying is a lie! Jehovah our God has not sent you to say, ‘Do not go to Egypt to reside there.’ <span id="chapter43_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But Barʹuch the son of Ne·riʹah is inciting you against us to hand us over to the Chal·deʹans, to put us to death or to take us into exile in Babylon.”</p>
<p id="p1113" data-pid="1113" class="p1113 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs and all the people disobeyed the voice of Jehovah to remain in the land of Judah. <span id="chapter43_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Instead, Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs took with them all the remnant of Judah who had returned to reside in the land of Judah from all the nations where they had been dispersed. <span id="chapter43_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They took the men, the women, the children, the daughters of the king, and everyone<span id="footnotesource369"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote369">*</a> whom Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard had left with Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan, as well as Jeremiah the prophet and Barʹuch the son of Ne·riʹah. <span id="chapter43_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And they went into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of Jehovah, and they went as far as Tahʹpan·hes.</p>
<p id="p1114" data-pid="1114" class="p1114 sb"><span id="pos185799"></span><span id="chapter43_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah in Tahʹpan·hes, saying: <span id="chapter43_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Take in your hand large stones, and hide them in the mortar in the brick terrace at the entrance of the house of Pharʹaoh in Tahʹpan·hes, with the Jewish men looking on. <span id="chapter43_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “Here I am sending for Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource370"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote370">*</a> the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will place his throne right above these stones that I have hidden, and he will extend his royal tent over them. <span id="chapter43_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And he will come in and strike the land of Egypt. Whoever is meant for deadly plague will be for deadly plague, and whoever is meant for captivity will be for captivity, and whoever is meant for the sword will be for the sword. <span id="chapter43_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And I will set the houses<span id="footnotesource371"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote371">*</a> of the gods of Egypt on fire, and he will burn them and lead them captive. He will wrap the land of Egypt around himself just as a shepherd wraps himself in his garment, and he will depart from <span id="page1100" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1100" data-before-text="1100"></span>there in peace.<span id="footnotesource372"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote372">*</a> <span id="chapter43_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And he will break to pieces the pillars<span id="footnotesource373"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote373">*</a> of Beth-sheʹmesh<span id="footnotesource374"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote374">*</a> in the land of Egypt, and he will burn the houses<span id="footnotesource375"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote375">*</a> of the gods of Egypt with fire.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote369"><p id="p1946" data-pid="1946"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource369">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:6</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote370"><p id="p1947" data-pid="1947"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource370">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:10</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote371"><p id="p1948" data-pid="1948"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource371">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:12</span></a> Or “temples.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote372"><p id="p1949" data-pid="1949"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource372">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:12</span></a> Or “unharmed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote373"><p id="p1950" data-pid="1950"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource373">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:13</span></a> Or “obelisks.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote374"><p id="p1951" data-pid="1951"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource374">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:13</span></a> Or “House (Temple) of the Sun,” that is, Heliopolis.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote375"><p id="p1952" data-pid="1952"><a href="1001061128-split43.xhtml#footnotesource375">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 43:13</span></a> Or “temples.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
