<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_20.xhtml">1 - 8</a></p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="pos80136"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>At the start of the year,<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> at the time when kings go on campaigns, Joʹab led a military expedition and devastated the land of the Amʹmon·ites; he came and besieged Rabʹbah, while David stayed in Jerusalem. Joʹab attacked Rabʹbah and tore it down. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then David took the crown of Malʹcam from its head, and found that it weighed a talent<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> of gold, and in it there were precious stones; and it was placed on David’s head. He also took a vast amount of spoil from the city. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And he brought out the people who were in it and put them to work at sawing stones and at working with sharp iron instruments and with axes. That was what David did to all the cities of the Amʹmon·ites. Finally David and all the troops returned to Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="page593" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="593" data-before-text="593"></span><span id="pos80882"></span><span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> After this, war broke out at Geʹzer with the Phi·lisʹtines. At that time Sibʹbe·cai the Huʹshath·ite struck down Sipʹpai, who was a descendant of the Rephʹa·im, and they were subdued.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And there was war again with the Phi·lisʹtines, and El·haʹnan the son of Jaʹir struck down Lahʹmi the brother of Go·liʹath the Gitʹtite, whose spear had a shaft like the beam of loom workers.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> War broke out yet again at Gath, where there was a man of extraordinary size, with 6 fingers on each hand and 6 toes on each foot, 24 in all; and he too was a descendant of the Rephʹa·im. <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He kept taunting Israel. So Jonʹa·than the son of Shimʹe·a, David’s brother, struck him down.</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> These were descendants of the Rephʹa·im in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p378" data-pid="378"><a href="1001061117-split20.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 20:1</span></a> That is, in the spring.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061117-split20.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 20:2</span></a> About 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
