<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_1.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1133" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1133" data-before-text="1133"></span><strong>EZEKIEL</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos51"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>In the 30th year, on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was among the exiled people by the river Cheʹbar, the heavens were opened and I began to see visions of God. <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> On the fifth day of the month—that is, in the fifth year of the exile of King Je·hoiʹa·chin— <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> the word of Jehovah came to Ezekiel<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> son of Buʹzi the priest by the river Cheʹbar in the land of the Chal·deʹans. There the hand of Jehovah came upon him.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos486"></span><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As I was looking, I saw a tempestuous wind coming from the north, and there was a huge cloud and flashing fire<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> surrounded by a bright light, and from the midst of the fire was something that looked like electrum.<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> <span id="pos705"></span><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Within it were what looked like four living creatures, and the appearance of each one was like that of a human. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Each one had four faces and four wings. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Their feet were straight, and the soles of their feet were like those of a calf, and they were shining like the glow of burnished copper. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They had human hands under their wings on all four sides, and the four of them had faces and wings. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Their wings were touching one another. They would not turn when they went; they would each go straight forward.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Their faces had this appearance: Each of the four had a man’s face with a lion’s face on the right, a bull’s face on the left, and each of the four had an eagle’s face. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> That is how their faces were. Their wings were spread out above them. Each had two wings that were touching one another and two wings covering their bodies.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They would each go straight forward, going wherever the spirit would incline them to go. They would not turn as they went. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the living creatures had the appearance of burning coals of fire, and something that looked like torches of bright fire was moving back and forth between the living creatures, and lightning was flashing out from the fire. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And when the living creatures would go forth and return, their movement had the appearance of flashes of lightning.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2059"></span><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> As I was watching the living creatures, I saw one wheel on the earth beside each of the living creatures with four faces. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The wheels and their structure appeared to glow like chrysʹo·lite, and the four of them looked alike. Their appearance and structure looked as <span id="page1134" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1134" data-before-text="1134"></span>though a wheel were within a wheel.<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning as they went. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Their rims were so high that they inspired awe, and the rims of all four were full of eyes all around. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Whenever the living creatures moved, the wheels would move along with them, and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels would also be lifted up. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> They would go where the spirit inclined them to go, wherever the spirit went. The wheels would be lifted up together with them, for the spirit operating on the living creatures<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> was also in the wheels. <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When they moved, these would move; and when they stood still, these would stand still; and when they were lifted up from the earth, the wheels would be lifted up together with them, for the spirit operating on the living creatures was also in the wheels.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos3242"></span><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Over the heads of the living creatures was the likeness of an expanse that sparkled like awesome ice, stretched out above their heads. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Under the expanse their wings were straight,<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> one to the other. Each one had two wings for covering one side of their bodies and two for covering the other side. <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> When I heard the sound of their wings, it was like a sound of rushing waters, like the sound of the Almighty. When they moved, it was like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they would let their wings down.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3779"></span><span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> There was a voice above the expanse over their heads. (When they stood still, they would let their wings down.) <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Above the expanse that was over their heads was what looked like a sapphire stone, and it resembled a throne. Sitting on the throne up above was someone whose appearance resembled that of a human. <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> I saw something glowing like electrum that was like a fire radiating from what appeared to be his waist and upward; and from his waist down, I saw something that resembled fire. There was a brilliance all around him <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> like that of a rainbow in a cloud on a rainy day. That was how the surrounding brilliant light appeared. It was like the appearance of the glory of Jehovah. When I saw it, I fell facedown and began to hear the voice of someone speaking.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p591" data-pid="591"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:3</span></a> Meaning “God Strengthens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p592" data-pid="592"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:4</span></a> Or “and lightning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p593" data-pid="593"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:4</span></a> A shining alloy of gold and silver.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p594" data-pid="594"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:16</span></a> Possibly centered at right angles on the same axis.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p595" data-pid="595"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:20</span></a> Lit., “the spirit of the living creature.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p596" data-pid="596"><a href="1001061130.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 1:23</span></a> Or possibly, “extended out straight.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
