<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_18.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos87604"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>In the third year of Ho·sheʹa the son of Eʹlah the king of Israel, Hez·e·kiʹah the son of King Aʹhaz of Judah became king. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He was 25 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 29 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Aʹbi<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> the daughter of Zech·a·riʹah. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He kept doing what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, just as David his forefather had done. <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He was the one who removed the high places, smashed the sacred pillars, and cut down the sacred pole.<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> He also crushed the copper serpent that Moses had made; for down to that time the people of Israel had been making sacrificial smoke to it and it used to be called the copper serpent-idol.<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He trusted in Jehovah the God of Israel; there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah after him nor among those prior to him. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He held fast to Jehovah. He did not turn away from following him; he continued to keep the commandments that Jehovah had given to Moses. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And Jehovah was with him. Wherever he went, he acted wisely. He rebelled against the king of As·syrʹi·a and refused to serve him. <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He also defeated the Phi·lisʹtines clear to Gazʹa and its territories, from watchtower to fortified city.<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a></p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos88802"></span><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In the fourth year of King Hez·e·kiʹah, that is, the seventh year of Ho·sheʹa the son of Eʹlah the king of Israel, King Shal·man·eʹser of As·syrʹi·a came up against Sa·marʹi·a and began to lay siege to it. <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They captured it at the end of three years; in the sixth year of Hez·e·kiʹah, which was the ninth year of King Ho·sheʹa of Israel, Sa·marʹi·a was captured. <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then the king of As·syrʹi·a took Israel into exile in As·syrʹi·a and settled them in Haʹlah and in Haʹbor at the river Goʹzan and in the cities of the Medes. <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> This was because they had not listened to the voice of Jehovah their God but kept violating his covenant, all that Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded. They neither listened nor obeyed.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos89546"></span><span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In the 14th year of King Hez·e·kiʹah, Sen·nachʹer·ib the king of As·syrʹi·a came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and captured them. <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah sent word to the king of As·syrʹi·a at Laʹchish: “I am at fault. Withdraw from against me, and I will give whatever you may impose on me.” The king of As·syrʹi·a imposed on King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah a fine of 300 silver talents<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> and 30 gold talents. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Hez·e·kiʹah gave all the silver that could be found at the house of Jehovah and in the treasuries of the king’s house.<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At that time Hez·e·kiʹah removed<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> the doors of the temple <span id="page553" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="553" data-before-text="553"></span>of Jehovah and the doorposts that King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah himself had overlaid,<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> and he gave them to the king of As·syrʹi·a.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The king of As·syrʹi·a then sent the Tarʹtan,<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> the Rabʹsa·ris,<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> and the Rabʹsha·keh<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> with a vast army from Laʹchish to King Hez·e·kiʹah in Jerusalem. They went up to Jerusalem and took up a position by the conduit of the upper pool, which is at the highway of the laundryman’s field. <span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When they called for the king to come out, E·liʹa·kim son of Hil·kiʹah, who was in charge of the household,<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a> Shebʹnah the secretary, and Joʹah son of Aʹsaph the recorder came out to them.</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos90803"></span><span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So the Rabʹsha·keh said to them: “Please, say to Hez·e·kiʹah, ‘This is what the great king, the king of As·syrʹi·a, says: “What is the basis for your confidence? <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You are saying, ‘I have a strategy and the power to wage war,’ but these are empty words. In whom have you put your trust, so that you dare to rebel against me? <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Look! You trust in the support of this crushed reed, Egypt, which if a man should lean on it would enter into his palm and pierce it. That is the way Pharʹaoh king of Egypt is to all those who trust in him. <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And if you should say to me, ‘We trust in Jehovah our God,’ is he not the one whose high places and altars Hez·e·kiʹah has removed, while he says to Judah and Jerusalem, ‘You should bow down before this altar in Jerusalem’?”’ <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So now make this wager, please, with my lord the king of As·syrʹi·a: I will give you 2,000 horses if you are able to find enough riders for them. <span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> How, then, could you drive back even one governor who is the least of my lord’s servants, while you put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now is it without authorization from Jehovah that I have come up against this place to destroy it? Jehovah himself said to me, ‘Go up against this land and destroy it.’”</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> At this E·liʹa·kim son of Hil·kiʹah, and Shebʹnah and Joʹah said to the Rabʹsha·keh: “Speak to your servants, please, in the Ar·a·maʹic<span id="footnotesource149"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote149">*</a> language, for we can understand it; do not speak to us in the language of the Jews in the hearing of the people on the wall.” <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But the Rabʹsha·keh said to them: “Is it just to your lord and to you that my lord sent me to speak these words? Is it not also to the men who sit on the wall, those who will eat their own excrement and drink their own urine along with you?”</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then the Rabʹsha·keh stood and called out loudly in the language of the Jews, saying: “Hear the word of the great king, the king of As·syrʹi·a. <span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> This is what the king says, ‘Do not let Hez·e·kiʹah deceive you, for he is not able to rescue you out of my hand. <span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And do not let Hez·e·kiʹah cause you to trust in Jehovah by saying: “Jehovah will surely rescue us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of As·syrʹi·a.” <span id="chapter18_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Do not listen to Hez·e·kiʹah, for this is what the king of As·syrʹi·a says: “Make peace with me and surrender,<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> and each of you will eat from his own vine and from his own fig tree and will drink the water of his own cistern, <span id="chapter18_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> until I come and take you to a land like your own land, a land of grain and <span id="page554" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="554" data-before-text="554"></span>new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive trees and honey. Then you will live and not die. Do not listen to Hez·e·kiʹah, for he misleads you by saying, ‘Jehovah will rescue us.’ <span id="chapter18_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Have any of the gods of the nations rescued their land out of the hand of the king of As·syrʹi·a? <span id="chapter18_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Where are the gods of Haʹmath and Arʹpad? Where are the gods of Seph·ar·vaʹim, Heʹna, and Ivʹvah? Have they rescued Sa·marʹi·a out of my hand? <span id="chapter18_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Who among all the gods of the lands have rescued their land out of my hand, so that Jehovah should rescue Jerusalem out of my hand?”’”</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But the people kept silent and did not say a word to him in reply, for the order of the king was, “You must not answer him.” <span id="chapter18_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But E·liʹa·kim son of Hil·kiʹah, who was in charge of the household,<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> Shebʹnah the secretary, and Joʹah son of Aʹsaph the recorder came to Hez·e·kiʹah with their garments ripped apart and told him the words of the Rabʹsha·keh.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p360" data-pid="360"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:2</span></a> An abbreviated form of Abijah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p362" data-pid="362"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:4</span></a> Or “called Nehushtan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:8</span></a> That is, in every place, whether sparsely inhabited or populous.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p364" data-pid="364"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:14</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p365" data-pid="365"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:15</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p366" data-pid="366"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:16</span></a> Lit., “cut off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p367" data-pid="367"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:16</span></a> That is, overlaid with gold.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p368" data-pid="368"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:17</span></a> Or “the commander.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p369" data-pid="369"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:17</span></a> Or “the chief court official.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p id="p370" data-pid="370"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:17</span></a> Or “the chief cupbearer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p id="p371" data-pid="371"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:18</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote149"><p id="p372" data-pid="372"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource149">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:26</span></a> Or “Syrian.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p id="p373" data-pid="373"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:31</span></a> Lit., “Make a blessing with me and come out to me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p id="p374" data-pid="374"><a href="1001061116-split18.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 18:37</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
