<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_3.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos8354"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>What, then, is the advantage of the Jew, or what is the benefit of circumcision? <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> A great deal in every way. First of all, that they were entrusted with the sacred pronouncements of God. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> What, then, is the case? If some lacked faith, will their lack of faith invalidate the faithfulness of God? <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Certainly not! But let God be found true, even if every man be found a liar, just as it is written: “That you might be proved righteous in your words and might win when you are being judged.” <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> However, if our unrighteousness highlights God’s righteousness, what are we to say? God is not unjust when he expresses his wrath, is he? (I am speaking in human terms.) <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> By no means! How, otherwise, will God judge the world?</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But if by my lie the truth of God has been made more prominent to his glory, why am I also being judged as a sinner? <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And why not say, just as some men falsely claim that we say, “Let us do bad things that good things may come”? The judgment against those men is in harmony with justice.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="page1510" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1510" data-before-text="1510"></span><span id="pos9388"></span><span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> What then? Are we in a better position? Not at all! For above we have made the charge that Jews as well as Greeks are all under sin; <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> just as it is written: “There is not a righteous man, not even one; <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> there is no one who has any insight; there is no one who searches for God. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> All men have turned aside, all of them have become worthless; there is no one who shows kindness, not so much as one.” <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Their throat is an open grave; they have deceived with their tongues.” “Venom of asps is behind their lips.” <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “And their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.” <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Their feet are swift to shed blood.” <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Ruin and misery are in their ways, <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and they have not known the way of peace.” <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “There is no fear of God before their eyes.”</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Now we know that all the things the Law says, it addresses to those under the Law, so that every mouth may be silenced and all the world may become accountable to God for punishment. <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Therefore, no one<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> will be declared righteous before him by works of law, for by law comes the accurate knowledge of sin.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos10511"></span><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But now apart from law God’s righteousness has been revealed, as the Law and the Prophets bear witness, <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> yes, God’s righteousness through the faith in Jesus Christ, for all those having faith. For there is no distinction. <span id="pos10749"></span><span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> and it is as a free gift that they are being declared righteous by his undeserved kindness through the release by the ransom paid by Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> God presented him as an offering for propitiation<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> through faith in his blood. This was to demonstrate his own righteousness, because God in his forbearance<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> was forgiving the sins that occurred in the past. <span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> This was to demonstrate his own righteousness in this present season, so that he might be righteous even when declaring righteous the man who has faith in Jesus.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Where, then, is the boasting? There is no place for it. Through what law? That of works? No indeed, but through the law of faith. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> For we consider that a man is declared righteous by faith apart from works of law. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Or is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of people of the nations? Yes, also of people of the nations. <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Since God is one, he will declare circumcised people righteous as a result of faith and uncircumcised people righteous by means of their faith. <span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Do we, then, abolish law by means of our faith? Not at all! On the contrary, we uphold law.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p107" data-pid="107"><a href="1001061149-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 3:20</span></a> Lit., “flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p108" data-pid="108"><a href="1001061149-split3.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 3:25</span></a> Or “atonement; reconciliation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p109" data-pid="109"><a href="1001061149-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 3:25</span></a> Or “tolerance.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
