<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_16.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos49559"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>Now Aʹbram’s wife Sarʹai had borne him no children, but she had an Egyptian servant whose name was Haʹgar. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So Sarʹai said to Aʹbram: “Please now! Jehovah has prevented me from bearing children. Please, have relations with my servant. Perhaps I can have children by means of her.” So Aʹbram listened to what Sarʹai said. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> After Aʹbram had lived for ten years in the land of Caʹnaan, Aʹbram’s wife Sarʹai took her Egyptian servant Haʹgar and gave her to her husband Aʹbram as his wife. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So he had relations with Haʹgar, and she became pregnant. When she realized that she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this Sarʹai said to Aʹbram: “The injury done to me is your fault. I was the one who put my servant in your arms,<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> but when she realized that she was pregnant, she began to despise me. May Jehovah judge between me and you.” <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Aʹbram said to Sarʹai: “Look! Your servant is under <span id="page60" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="60" data-before-text="60"></span>your authority. Do to her whatever you think is best.” Then Sarʹai humiliated her, and she ran away from her.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Later Jehovah’s angel found her at a spring of waters in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur. <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And he said: “Haʹgar, servant of Sarʹai, where have you come from and where are you going?” To this she said: “I am running away from my mistress Sarʹai.” <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jehovah’s angel then said to her: “Return to your mistress and humble yourself under her hand.” <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Jehovah’s angel said: “I will greatly multiply your offspring,<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> so that they will be too numerous to count.” <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah’s angel added: “Here you are pregnant, and you will give birth to a son, and you must name him Ishʹma·el,<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> for Jehovah has heard your affliction. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He will be a wild donkey<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> of a man. His hand will be against everyone, and everyone’s hand will be against him, and he will dwell opposite all his brothers.”<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a></p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then she called on the name of Jehovah, who was speaking to her: “You are a God of sight,” for she said: “Have I here actually looked upon the one who sees me?” <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> That is why the well was called Beʹer-laʹhai-roi.<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> (It is between Kaʹdesh and Beʹred.) <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Haʹgar bore to Aʹbram a son, and Aʹbram named his son, whom Haʹgar bore, Ishʹma·el. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Aʹbram was 86 years old when Haʹgar bore Ishʹma·el to him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p578" data-pid="578"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:5</span></a> Lit., “in your bosom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p579" data-pid="579"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:10</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p580" data-pid="580"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:11</span></a> Meaning “God Hears.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p581" data-pid="581"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:12</span></a> Or “an onager,” a kind of wild donkey, though some think that it refers to a zebra. Likely a reference to an independent disposition.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p582" data-pid="582"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:12</span></a> Or possibly, “and he will live in hostility to all his brothers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p583" data-pid="583"><a href="1001061105-split16.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 16:14</span></a> Meaning “Well of the Living One Who Sees Me.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
