<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_1.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page524" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="524" data-before-text="524"></span><strong>THE SECOND OF KINGS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos71"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>After the death of Aʹhab, Moʹab revolted against Israel.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> It was then that A·ha·ziʹah fell down through the grating in his roof chamber in Sa·marʹi·a and was injured. So he sent messengers and said to them: “Go, inquire of Baʹal-zeʹbub the god of Ekʹron to find out whether I will recover from this injury.” <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But the angel of Jehovah said to E·liʹjah<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the Tishʹbite: “Rise up, go to meet the messengers of the king of Sa·marʹi·a and say to them, ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baʹal-zeʹbub the god of Ekʹron? <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah says: “You will not leave the bed on which you are lying, for you will certainly die.”’” With that E·liʹjah went off.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When the messengers returned to him, he immediately said to them: “Why have you come back?” <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They replied to him: “There was a man who came up to meet us, and he said to us, ‘Go, return to the king who sent you and tell him, “This is what Jehovah says: ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Baʹal-zeʹbub the god of Ekʹron? Therefore, you will not leave the bed on which you are lying, for you will certainly die.’”’” <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At this he asked them: “What did the man look like who came up to meet you and spoke these words to you?” <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So they said to him: “He was a man with a garment of hair and a leather belt around his waist.” Immediately he said: “It was E·liʹjah the Tishʹbite.”</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The king then sent to him a chief of 50 with his 50 men. When he went up to him, he was sitting on the top of the mountain. He said to him: “Man of the true God, the king says, ‘Come down.’” <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But E·liʹjah answered the chief of the 50: “Well, if I am a man of God, let fire come down from the heavens and consume you and your 50 men.” And fire came down from the heavens and consumed him and his 50 men.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="page525" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="525" data-before-text="525"></span><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So the king sent again to him another chief of 50 with his 50 men. He went and said to him: “Man of the true God, this is what the king says, ‘Come down quickly.’” <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But E·liʹjah answered them: “If I am a man of the true God, let fire come down from the heavens and consume you and your 50 men.” And fire of God came down from the heavens and consumed him and his 50 men.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then the king sent again a third chief of 50 and his 50 men. But the third chief of 50 went up and bowed down on his knees in front of E·liʹjah and began to beg for favor and say to him: “Man of the true God, please, let my life and the lives of<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> these 50 servants of yours be precious in your eyes. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Fire has already come down from the heavens and consumed the two former chiefs of 50 and their groups of 50, but now let my life<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> be precious in your eyes.”</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At that the angel of Jehovah told E·liʹjah: “Go down with him. Do not be afraid of him.” So he rose and went down with him to the king. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> E·liʹjah then said to the king, “This is what Jehovah says: ‘You sent messengers to inquire of Baʹal-zeʹbub the god of Ekʹron. Is it because there is no God in Israel? Why did you not inquire of his word? Therefore, you will not leave the bed on which you are lying, for you will certainly die.’” <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he died, according to the word of Jehovah that E·liʹjah had spoken; and because he did not have a son, Je·hoʹram<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> became king in his place, in the second year of Je·hoʹram the son of Je·hoshʹa·phat the king of Judah.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of A·ha·ziʹah, what he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p224" data-pid="224"><a href="1001061116.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 1:3</span></a> Meaning “My God Is Jehovah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p225" data-pid="225"><a href="1001061116.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 1:13</span></a> Or “let my soul and the souls of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p226" data-pid="226"><a href="1001061116.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 1:14</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p227" data-pid="227"><a href="1001061116.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 1:17</span></a> That is, Ahaziah’s brother.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
