<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_14.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p541" data-pid="541" class="p541 sb"><span id="pos58479"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>This is the word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the droughts:</p>
<p id="p542" data-pid="542" class="p542 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Judah mourns, and its gates have faded away.</p>
<p id="p543" data-pid="543" class="p543 sz">They sink to the ground dejected,</p><p data-pid="543" class="p543 sz">And a cry goes up from Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p544" data-pid="544" class="p544 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And their masters send their servants<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> for water.</p>
<p id="p545" data-pid="545" class="p545 sz">They go to the water holes<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> and find no water.</p>
<p id="p546" data-pid="546" class="p546 sz">They return with their vessels empty.</p>
<p id="p547" data-pid="547" class="p547 sz">They are ashamed and disappointed,</p><p data-pid="547" class="p547 sz">And they cover their heads.</p>
<p id="p548" data-pid="548" class="p548 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Because the ground is cracked,</p><p data-pid="548" class="p548 sz">For there is no rain on the land,</p><p data-pid="548" class="p548 sz">The farmers are dismayed and cover their heads.</p>
<p id="p549" data-pid="549" class="p549 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn</p><p data-pid="549" class="p549 sz">Because there is no grass.</p>
<p id="p550" data-pid="550" class="p550 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The wild donkeys stand on the bare hills.</p>
<p id="p551" data-pid="551" class="p551 sz">They pant for air like jackals;</p><p data-pid="551" class="p551 sz">Their eyes fail because there is no vegetation.</p>
<p id="p552" data-pid="552" class="p552 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Although our own errors testify against us,</p><p data-pid="552" class="p552 sz">O Jehovah, act for the sake of your name.</p>
<p id="p553" data-pid="553" class="p553 sz">For our acts of unfaithfulness are many,</p><p data-pid="553" class="p553 sz">And it is against you that we have sinned.</p>
<p id="p554" data-pid="554" class="p554 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> O hope of Israel, his Savior in times of distress,</p><p data-pid="554" class="p554 sz">Why are you like a stranger in the land,</p><p data-pid="554" class="p554 sz">Like a traveler who stops only to spend the night?</p>
<p id="p555" data-pid="555" class="p555 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Why are you like a man who is stunned,</p><p data-pid="555" class="p555 sz">Like a mighty man who cannot save?</p>
<p id="p556" data-pid="556" class="p556 sz">For you are among us, O Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="556" class="p556 sz">And your name has been called on us.</p>
<p id="p557" data-pid="557" class="p557 sz">Do not abandon us.</p>
<p id="p558" data-pid="558" class="p558 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah says concerning this people: “They love to wander about; they have not restrained their feet. So Jehovah finds no pleasure in them. Now he will remember their error and call them to account for their sins.”</p>
<p id="p559" data-pid="559" class="p559 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to me: “Do not pray for good to come to this people. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When they fast, I do not listen to their entreaties, and when they offer whole burnt offerings and grain offerings, I take no pleasure in them, for by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence,<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> I will do away with them.”</p>
<p id="p560" data-pid="560" class="p560 sb"><span id="pos60296"></span><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> At this I said: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah! Here the <span id="page1056" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1056" data-before-text="1056"></span>prophets are saying to them, ‘You will not see the sword, and famine will not come upon you, but I will give you true peace in this place.’”</p>
<p id="p561" data-pid="561" class="p561 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to me: “The prophets are prophesying lies in my name. I have not sent them or commanded them or spoken to them. A lying vision and a worthless divination and the deceit of their own heart is what they are prophesying to you. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah says concerning the prophets who are prophesying in my name, though I did not send them, and who say that no sword or famine will occur in this land: ‘By sword and by famine those prophets will perish. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And the people to whom they are prophesying will be cast out into the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword, with no one to bury them—them, their wives, their sons, or their daughters—for I will pour out on them the calamity they deserve.’</p>
<p id="p562" data-pid="562" class="p562 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “You must speak this word to them,</p><p data-pid="562" class="p562 sz">‘Let my eyes stream with tears night and day, let them not cease,</p><p data-pid="562" class="p562 sz">For the virgin daughter of my people has been completely crushed and broken,</p><p data-pid="562" class="p562 sz">With an extremely severe wound.</p>
<p id="p563" data-pid="563" class="p563 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> If I go out into the field and look,</p><p data-pid="563" class="p563 sz">I see those slain by the sword!</p>
<p id="p564" data-pid="564" class="p564 sz">And if I come into the city,</p><p data-pid="564" class="p564 sz">I see the diseases from the famine!</p>
<p id="p565" data-pid="565" class="p565 sz">For both the prophet and the priest have gone around in a land that they do not know.’”</p>
<p id="p566" data-pid="566" class="p566 sl"><span id="pos61735"></span><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Have you completely rejected Judah, or have you<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> abhorred Zion?</p>
<p id="p567" data-pid="567" class="p567 sz">Why have you struck us, so that there is no healing for us?</p>
<p id="p568" data-pid="568" class="p568 sz">There was a hope for peace, but nothing good came,</p><p data-pid="568" class="p568 sz">For a time of healing, but there is terror!</p>
<p id="p569" data-pid="569" class="p569 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> We acknowledge our wickedness, O Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="569" class="p569 sz">And the error of our forefathers,</p><p data-pid="569" class="p569 sz">For we have sinned against you.</p>
<p id="p570" data-pid="570" class="p570 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For the sake of your name, do not reject us;</p><p data-pid="570" class="p570 sz">Do not despise your glorious throne.</p>
<p id="p571" data-pid="571" class="p571 sz">Remember, and do not break your covenant with us.</p>
<p id="p572" data-pid="572" class="p572 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Can any of the worthless idols of the nations give rain,</p><p data-pid="572" class="p572 sz">Or can even the heavens send showers of rain on their own?</p>
<p id="p573" data-pid="573" class="p573 sz">Are you not the only One, O Jehovah our God?</p>
<p id="p574" data-pid="574" class="p574 sz">And we hope in you,</p><p data-pid="574" class="p574 sz">For you alone have done all these things.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p1711" data-pid="1711"><a href="1001061128-split14.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 14:3</span></a> Or “their small ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p1712" data-pid="1712"><a href="1001061128-split14.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 14:3</span></a> Or “the ditches; the cisterns.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p1713" data-pid="1713"><a href="1001061128-split14.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 14:12</span></a> Or “disease.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p1714" data-pid="1714"><a href="1001061128-split14.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 14:19</span></a> Or “has your soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
