<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_5.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="pos17375"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>In time all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebʹron and said: “Look! We are your own bone and flesh.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In times past while Saul was our king, you were the one who was leading Israel on its campaigns.<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> And Jehovah said to you: ‘You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become leader over Israel.’” <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebʹron, and King David made a covenant with them in Hebʹron before Jehovah. Then they anointed David as king over Israel.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> David was 30 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 40 years. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> In Hebʹron he reigned over Judah for 7 years and 6 months, and in Jerusalem he reigned for 33 years over all Israel and Judah. <span id="pos18082"></span><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And the king and his men set out for Jerusalem against the Jebʹu·sites who were inhabiting the land. They taunted David: “You will never come in here! Even the blind and the lame will drive you away.” They thought, ‘David will never get in here.’ <span id="pos18335"></span><span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> However, David captured the stronghold of Zion, which is now the City of David. <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So David <span id="page448" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="448" data-before-text="448"></span>said on that day: “Those who attack the Jebʹu·sites should go through the water tunnel to strike down both ‘the lame and the blind,’ who are hateful to David!”<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> That is why it is said: “The blind and the lame will never enter the house.” <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then David took up residence in the stronghold, and it was called<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> the City of David; and David began to build all around from the Mound<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> inward. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Thus David became greater and greater, and Jehovah the God of armies was with him.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> King Hiʹram of Tyre sent messengers to David, also cedar timbers, woodworkers, and stonemasons for building walls, and they began to build a house<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> for David. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And David knew that Jehovah had firmly established him as king over Israel and had exalted his kingdom for the sake of His people Israel.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David took more concubines and wives in Jerusalem after he came from Hebʹron, and more sons and daughters were born to David. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These are the names of those born to him in Jerusalem: Sham·muʹa, Shoʹbab, Nathan, Solʹo·mon, <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Ibʹhar, E·liʹshu·a, Neʹpheg, Ja·phiʹa, <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> E·lishʹa·ma, E·liʹa·da, and E·liphʹe·let.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos19568"></span><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When the Phi·lisʹtines heard that David had been anointed as king over Israel, all the Phi·lisʹtines came up to search for David. When David heard about it, he went down to the stronghold. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then the Phi·lisʹtines came in and spread out in the Valley<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> of Rephʹa·im. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> David inquired of Jehovah, saying: “Should I go up against the Phi·lisʹtines? Will you give them into my hand?” At this Jehovah said to David: “Go up, for I will surely give the Phi·lisʹtines into your hand.” <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So David came to Baʹal-pe·raʹzim, and David struck them down there. At that he said: “Jehovah has broken through my enemies before me, like a breach made by waters.” That is why he named that place Baʹal-pe·raʹzim.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The Phi·lisʹtines abandoned their idols there, and David and his men took them away.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Later the Phi·lisʹtines came up once again and spread out in the Valley<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> of Rephʹa·im. <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> David inquired of Jehovah, but He said: “Do not go directly up. Instead, go around behind them, and come against them in front of the baʹca bushes. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the baʹca bushes, then act decisively, for Jehovah will have gone out before you to strike down the army of the Phi·lisʹtines.” <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So David did just as Jehovah commanded him, and he struck down the Phi·lisʹtines from Geʹba all the way to Geʹzer.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:1</span></a> Or “your blood relatives.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:2</span></a> Lit., “the one bringing out and the one bringing in Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:8</span></a> Or “the soul of David.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:9</span></a> Or possibly, “and he called it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:9</span></a> Or “Millo.” A Hebrew term meaning “fill.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:11</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:18</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:20</span></a> Meaning “Master of Breakings Through.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061114-split5.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 5:22</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
