<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 41</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">41</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_41.xhtml">1 - 57</a></p>
<p id="p355" data-pid="355" class="p355 sb"><span id="pos164109"></span><span id="chapter41"></span><span id="chapter41_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>41</strong> </span>At the end of two full years, Pharʹaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile River. <span id="chapter41_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And there, coming up from the river, were seven fine-looking, fat cows, and they were feeding on the Nile grass. <span id="chapter41_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> There were seven other cows that looked ugly and thin coming up after them from the Nile, and they stood alongside the fat cows by the bank of the Nile. <span id="chapter41_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then the ugly, thin cows began to eat up the seven fine-looking, fat cows. At this Pharʹaoh woke up.</p>
<p id="p356" data-pid="356" class="p356 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then he went back to sleep and had a second dream. There were seven ears of grain coming up on one stalk, full and choice. <span id="chapter41_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And growing up after them were seven ears of grain that were thin and scorched by the east wind. <span id="chapter41_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the thin ears of grain began to swallow up the seven full and choice ears of grain. At this Pharʹaoh woke up and realized that it was a dream.</p>
<p id="p357" data-pid="357" class="p357 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But in the morning, his spirit became agitated. So he sent for all the magic-practicing priests of Egypt and all her wise men. Pharʹaoh related his dreams to them, but there was no one who could interpret them for Pharʹaoh.</p>
<p id="p358" data-pid="358" class="p358 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At that the chief cupbearer spoke with Pharʹaoh, saying: “I am confessing my sins today. <span id="chapter41_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Pharʹaoh was indignant at his servants. So he committed me to the jail of the house of the chief of the guard, both me and the chief baker. <span id="chapter41_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> After that we each had a dream on the same night. He and I each had a dream with its own interpretation. <span id="chapter41_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And there with us was a young Hebrew man, a servant of the chief of the guard. When we related them to him, he interpreted for us the meaning of each dream. <span id="chapter41_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> It happened exactly as he had interpreted to us. I was restored to my office, but the other man was hanged.”</p>
<p id="p359" data-pid="359" class="p359 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Pharʹaoh sent for Joseph, and they brought him quickly from the prison.<span id="footnotesource290"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote290">*</a> He shaved and changed his clothes and went in to Pharʹaoh. <span id="page97" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="97" data-before-text="97"></span><span id="chapter41_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Pharʹaoh said to Joseph: “I had a dream, but there is no one to interpret it. Now I have heard it said about you that you can hear a dream and interpret it.” <span id="chapter41_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At this Joseph answered Pharʹaoh: “I need not be considered! God will speak concerning Pharʹaoh’s welfare.”</p>
<p id="p360" data-pid="360" class="p360 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Pharʹaoh went on to say to Joseph: “In my dream I was standing on the bank of the Nile River. <span id="chapter41_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And there, coming up from the Nile, were seven fine-looking, fat cows, and they began to feed on the Nile grass. <span id="chapter41_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And there were seven other cows coming up after them, poor and very bad-looking and thin. I have never seen such bad-looking cows in all the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter41_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the skinny, bad cows began to eat up the first seven fat cows. <span id="chapter41_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But when they had consumed them, no one could have known that they had done so, since their appearance was just as bad as at the start. At that I woke up.</p>
<p id="p361" data-pid="361" class="p361 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “After that I saw in my dream seven ears of grain coming up on one stalk, full and choice. <span id="chapter41_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Growing up after them were seven ears of shriveled grain, thin and scorched by the east wind. <span id="chapter41_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then the thin ears of grain began to swallow up the seven choice ears of grain. So I told it to the magic-practicing priests, but there was no one who could explain it to me.”</p>
<p id="p362" data-pid="362" class="p362 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then Joseph said to Pharʹaoh: “The dreams of Pharʹaoh are one and the same. The true God has told to Pharʹaoh what He will do. <span id="chapter41_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The seven good cows are seven years. Likewise, the seven good ears of grain are seven years. The dreams are one and the same. <span id="chapter41_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The seven skinny and bad cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty ears of grain, scorched by the east wind, will prove to be seven years of famine. <span id="chapter41_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> This is just as I told to Pharʹaoh: The true God has caused Pharʹaoh to see what He will do.</p>
<p id="p363" data-pid="363" class="p363 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “There are to be seven years of great abundance in all the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter41_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But seven years of famine will certainly arise after them, and all the abundance in the land of Egypt will certainly be forgotten, and the famine will exhaust the land. <span id="chapter41_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And the previous abundance in the land will not be remembered because of the famine afterward, for it will be very severe. <span id="chapter41_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The dream was given twice to Pharʹaoh because the matter has been firmly established by the true God, and the true God will soon carry it out.</p>
<p id="p364" data-pid="364" class="p364 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “So now let Pharʹaoh look for a man who is discreet and wise and place him over the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter41_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Let Pharʹaoh take action and appoint overseers in the land, and he should collect one fifth of the produce of Egypt during the seven years of abundance. <span id="chapter41_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And let them collect all the food during these coming good years, and let them stockpile grain under Pharʹaoh’s authority as food to be stored in the cities and safeguarded there. <span id="chapter41_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The food should serve as a supply for the land for the seven years of famine that will occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land may not perish in the famine.”</p>
<p id="p365" data-pid="365" class="p365 sb"><span id="pos168971"></span><span id="chapter41_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> This proposal seemed good to Pharʹaoh and all his servants. <span id="chapter41_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So Pharʹaoh said to his servants: “Can another man be found like this one in whom there is the spirit of God?” <span id="chapter41_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Pharʹaoh then said to Joseph: “Since God has caused you to know all of this, there is no one as discreet and wise as you. <span id="chapter41_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> You will personally be over <span id="page98" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="98" data-before-text="98"></span>my house, and all my people will obey you implicitly. Only in my role as king<span id="footnotesource291"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote291">*</a> will I be greater than you.” <span id="chapter41_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And Pharʹaoh added to Joseph: “See, I am putting you over all the land of Egypt.” <span id="chapter41_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Then Pharʹaoh removed his signet ring from his own hand and put it on Joseph’s hand and clothed him with garments of fine linen and placed a necklace of gold around his neck. <span id="chapter41_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Moreover, he had him ride in the second chariot of honor that he had, and they would call out ahead of him, <em>“A·vrékh!”</em><span id="footnotesource292"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote292">*</a> Thus he put him over all the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p366" data-pid="366" class="p366 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Pharʹaoh further said to Joseph: “I am Pharʹaoh, but without your authorization, no man may do a single thing<span id="footnotesource293"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote293">*</a> in all the land of Egypt.” <span id="chapter41_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> After that Pharʹaoh gave Joseph the name Zaphʹe·nath-pa·neʹah and gave him Asʹe·nath the daughter of Pot·iʹphe·ra the priest of On<span id="footnotesource294"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote294">*</a> as a wife. And Joseph began to oversee<span id="footnotesource295"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote295">*</a> the land of Egypt. <span id="pos170232"></span><span id="chapter41_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before<span id="footnotesource296"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote296">*</a> Pharʹaoh king of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p367" data-pid="367" class="p367 sb">Then Joseph went out from before Pharʹaoh and traveled throughout all the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter41_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> And during the seven years of abundance, the land went on producing plentifully.<span id="footnotesource297"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote297">*</a> <span id="chapter41_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> And he kept collecting all the food of the seven years from the land of Egypt, and he would stockpile the food in the cities. In each city he would store the food from the fields around it. <span id="chapter41_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Joseph continued stockpiling grain in very great quantity, like the sand of the sea, until finally they gave up measuring it because it could not be measured.</p>
<p id="p368" data-pid="368" class="p368 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Before the year of the famine arrived, two sons were born to Joseph, whom Asʹe·nath the daughter of Pot·iʹphe·ra the priest of On<span id="footnotesource298"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote298">*</a> bore to him. <span id="chapter41_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Joseph named the firstborn Ma·nasʹseh,<span id="footnotesource299"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote299">*</a> for he said, “God has made me forget all my trouble and all the house of my father.” <span id="chapter41_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And he named the second one Eʹphra·im,<span id="footnotesource300"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote300">*</a> for he said, “God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.”</p>
<p id="p369" data-pid="369" class="p369 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> Then the seven years of abundance in the land of Egypt ended, <span id="chapter41_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> and the seven years of famine began, just as Joseph had said. The famine developed in all the lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.<span id="footnotesource301"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote301">*</a> <span id="chapter41_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> Eventually, all the land of Egypt suffered from the famine, and the people began to cry to Pharʹaoh for bread. Then Pharʹaoh said to all the Egyptians: “Go to Joseph, and do whatever he tells you.” <span id="chapter41_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> The famine continued over all the surface of the earth. Then Joseph began to open up all the granaries that were among them and to sell to the Egyptians, as the famine had a strong grip on the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter41_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Moreover, people of all the earth came to Egypt to buy from Joseph, because the famine had a strong grip on all the earth.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote290"><p id="p757" data-pid="757"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource290">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:14</span></a> Lit., “the cistern; the pit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote291"><p id="p758" data-pid="758"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource291">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:40</span></a> Or “Only with regard to the throne.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote292"><p id="p759" data-pid="759"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource292">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:43</span></a> Apparently a term calling for honor and dignity to be shown.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote293"><p id="p760" data-pid="760"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource293">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:44</span></a> Lit., “lift up his hand or his foot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote294"><p id="p761" data-pid="761"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource294">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:45</span></a> That is, Heliopolis.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote295"><p id="p762" data-pid="762"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource295">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:45</span></a> Or “travel through.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote296"><p id="p763" data-pid="763"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource296">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:46</span></a> Or “when he entered the service of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote297"><p id="p764" data-pid="764"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource297">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:47</span></a> Lit., “by handfuls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote298"><p id="p765" data-pid="765"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource298">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:50</span></a> That is, Heliopo­lis.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote299"><p id="p766" data-pid="766"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource299">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:51</span></a> Meaning “One Making Forgetful; One Who Makes Forget.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote300"><p id="p767" data-pid="767"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource300">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:52</span></a> Meaning “Doubly Fruitful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote301"><p id="p768" data-pid="768"><a href="1001061105-split41.xhtml#footnotesource301">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 41:54</span></a> Or “food.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
