<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_14.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos43404"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Now in the days of Amʹra·phel king of Shiʹnar, Arʹi·och king of El·laʹsar, Ched·or·la·oʹmer king of Eʹlam, and Tiʹdal king of Goiʹim, <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> these made war with Beʹra king of Sodʹom, Birʹsha king of Go·morʹrah, Shiʹnab king of Adʹmah, Shem·eʹber king of Ze·boiʹim, and the king of Beʹla, that is, Zoʹar. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> All of these joined forces at the Valley<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> of Sidʹdim, that is, the Salt Sea.<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a></p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They had served Ched·or·la·oʹmer for 12 years, but they rebelled in the 13th year. <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So in the 14th year, Ched·or·la·oʹmer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephʹa·im in Ashʹte·roth-kar·naʹim, the Zuʹzim in Ham, the Eʹmim in Shaʹveh-kir·i·a·thaʹim, <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and the Horʹites in their mountain of Seʹir down to El-paʹran, which is at the wilderness. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then they turned back and came to En-mishʹpat, that is, Kaʹdesh, and conquered the whole territory of the A·malʹek·ites and also the Amʹor·ites who were dwelling in Hazʹa·zon-taʹmar.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At this point, the king of Sodʹom went on the march, and also the king of Go·morʹrah, <span id="page58" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="58" data-before-text="58"></span>the king of Adʹmah, the king of Ze·boiʹim, and the king of Beʹla, that is, Zoʹar, and they drew up in battle formation against them in the Valley<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> of Sidʹdim, <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> against Ched·or·la·oʹmer king of Eʹlam, Tiʹdal king of Goiʹim, Amʹra·phel king of Shiʹnar, and Arʹi·och king of El·laʹsar—four kings against the five. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now the Valley<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> of Sidʹdim was full of bitumen pits, and the kings of Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah tried to escape and fell into them, and those who remained fled to the mountainous region. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then the victors took all the goods of Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah and all their food and went on their way. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They also took Lot, the son of Aʹbram’s brother who was dwelling in Sodʹom, as well as his goods, and they continued on their way.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> After that a man who had escaped came and told Aʹbram the Hebrew. He was then dwelling<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> among the big trees of Mamʹre the Amʹor·ite, the brother of Eshʹcol and Aʹner. These men were allies of Aʹbram. <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Thus Aʹbram heard that his relative<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> had been taken captive. With that he mobilized his trained men, 318 servants born in his household, and went in pursuit up to Dan. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> During the night, he divided his forces, and he and his servants attacked and defeated them. And he pursued them up to Hoʹbah, which is north of Damascus. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He recovered all the goods, and he also recovered Lot his relative, his goods, the women, and the other people.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos45877"></span><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After Aʹbram returned from defeating Ched·or·la·oʹmer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodʹom went out to meet Aʹbram at the Valley<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> of Shaʹveh, that is, the Valley of the King. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And Mel·chizʹe·dek king of Saʹlem brought out bread and wine; he was priest of the Most High God.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then he blessed him and said:</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sz">“Blessed be Aʹbram by the Most High God,</p><p data-pid="132" class="p132 sz">Maker of heaven and earth;</p><p data-pid="132" class="p132 sl"><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And praised be the Most High God,</p><p data-pid="132" class="p132 sz">Who has handed your oppressors over to you!”</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb">And Aʹbram gave him a tenth of everything.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After that the king of Sodʹom said to Aʹbram: “Give me the people,<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> but take the goods for yourself.” <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But Aʹbram said to the king of Sodʹom: “I raise my hand in an oath to Jehovah the Most High God, Maker of heaven and earth, <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> that I will not take anything that is yours, from a thread to a sandal lace, so that you may not say, ‘I made Aʹbram rich.’ <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> I will take nothing except what the young men have already eaten. As for the share of the men who went with me, Aʹner, Eshʹcol, and Mamʹre—let them take their share.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p562" data-pid="562"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:3</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p563" data-pid="563"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:3</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p564" data-pid="564"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:8</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p565" data-pid="565"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:10</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p566" data-pid="566"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:13</span></a> Or “dwelling in tents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p567" data-pid="567"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:14</span></a> Lit., “brother.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p568" data-pid="568"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:17</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p569" data-pid="569"><a href="1001061105-split14.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:21</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
