<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_17.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos71227"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>Six days later Jesus took Peter and James and his brother John along and led them up into a lofty mountain by themselves. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he was transfigured before them; his face shone as the sun, and his outer garments became brilliant<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> as the light. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And look! there appeared to them Moses and E·liʹjah conversing with him. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Peter said to Jesus: “Lord, it is fine for us to be here. If you wish, I will erect three tents here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for E·liʹjah.” <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> While he was still speaking, look! a bright cloud overshadowed them, and look! a voice out of the cloud said: “This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved. Listen to him.” <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At hearing this, the disciples fell facedown and became very much afraid. <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Jesus came near, and touching them, he said: “Get up. Have no fear.” <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When they looked up, they saw no one but Jesus himself. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As they were descending from the mountain, Jesus commanded them: “Tell the vision to no one until the Son of man is raised up from the dead.”</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> However, the disciples put the question to him: “Why, then, do the scribes say that E·liʹjah must come first?” <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> In reply he said: “E·liʹjah is indeed coming and will restore all things. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> However, I say to you that <span id="page1329" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1329" data-before-text="1329"></span>E·liʹjah has already come, and they did not recognize him but did whatever they wanted with him. In this way also, the Son of man is going to suffer at their hands.” <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then the disciples perceived that he spoke to them about John the Baptist.</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos72751"></span><span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When they came toward the crowd, a man approached him, knelt down to him, and said: <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is an epileptic and is ill. He falls often into the fire and often into the water. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him.” <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said: “O faithless and twisted generation, how long must I continue with you? How long must I put up with you? Bring him here to me.” <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour. <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said: “Why could we not expel it?” <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He said to them: “Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard grain, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.” <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> ——</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="pos73644"></span><span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> It was while they were gathered together in Galʹi·lee that Jesus said to them: “The Son of man is going to be betrayed into men’s hands, <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and they will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised up.” And they were very much grieved.</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="pos73898"></span><span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After they arrived in Ca·perʹna·um, the men collecting the two drachmas<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> tax approached Peter and said: “Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas tax?” <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He said: “Yes.” However, when he entered the house, Jesus spoke to him first and said: “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive duties or head tax? From their sons or from the strangers?” <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When he said: “From the strangers,” Jesus said to him: “Really, then, the sons are tax-free. <span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But that we do not cause them to stumble, go to the sea, cast a fishhook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a silver coin.<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> Take that and give it to them for me and you.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p350" data-pid="350"><a href="1001061144-split17.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 17:2</span></a> Or “white.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p351" data-pid="351"><a href="1001061144-split17.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 17:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061144-split17.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 17:24</span></a> Lit., “the double drachmas.” See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p353" data-pid="353"><a href="1001061144-split17.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 17:27</span></a> Lit., “stater coin,” considered to be the tetradrachma. See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
