<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_25.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="page635" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="635" data-before-text="635"></span><span id="pos87885"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>Am·a·ziʹah was 25 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 29 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·ho·adʹdan of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He continued to do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, but not with a complete heart. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> As soon as he had the kingdom firmly in his control, he killed his servants who had killed his father the king. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But he did not put their sons to death, for he acted in harmony with what is written in the Law, in the book of Moses, where Jehovah commanded: “Fathers should not die for their sons, and sons should not die for their fathers; but each one should die for his own sin.”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos88513"></span><span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And Am·a·ziʹah gathered Judah together and had them stand according to the paternal houses, by the chiefs of thousands and by the chiefs of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He registered them from 20 years old and up, and he found them to be 300,000 trained<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> warriors to serve in the army, able to handle the lance and the large shield. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Further, he hired from Israel 100,000 mighty warriors for 100 silver talents.<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But a man of the true God came to him, saying: “O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for Jehovah is not with Israel, not with any of the Eʹphra·im·ites. <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But go by yourself, act, and be courageous in battle. Otherwise, the true God could cause you to stumble before an enemy, for God has the power to help and to cause stumbling.” <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At this Am·a·ziʹah said to the man of the true God: “But what about the 100 talents that I have given to the troops of Israel?” The man of the true God replied: “Jehovah has the means to give you much more than that.” <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Am·a·ziʹah dismissed the troops that had come to him from Eʹphra·im, sending them to their own place. However, they were very angry with Judah, so they returned to their own place in the heat of anger.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Am·a·ziʹah took courage and led his own troops to the Valley of Salt, and he struck down 10,000 men of Seʹir. <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And the men of Judah captured 10,000 alive. So they brought them to the top of the crag and threw them down from the top of the crag, and they were all dashed to pieces. <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But the members of the troop whom Am·a·ziʹah had sent back from accompanying him to the war were making raids on the cities of Judah, from Sa·marʹi·a clear to Beth-hoʹron; they struck down 3,000 of them and took much spoil.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos90267"></span><span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But after Am·a·ziʹah returned from striking down the Eʹdom·ites, he brought the gods of the men of Seʹir and set them up for himself as gods, and he began to bow down before them and to make sacrificial smoke to them. <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Jehovah grew very angry with Am·a·ziʹah, and he sent a prophet who said to him: “Why are you following the people’s gods that did not rescue their own people out of your hand?” <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As he spoke to him, the king said: “Did we appoint you as an adviser to the king? Stop! Why should they strike you down?” Then the prophet quit, but he added: “I know that God has decided to bring you to ruin, because you have done this and you have not listened to my advice.”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos90968"></span><span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After consulting with his advisers, King Am·a·ziʹah of Judah sent a message to Je·hoʹash <span id="page636" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="636" data-before-text="636"></span>son of Je·hoʹa·haz son of Jeʹhu the king of Israel, saying: “Come, let us confront each other in battle.”<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> King Je·hoʹash of Israel sent this message to King Am·a·ziʹah of Judah: “The thorny weed in Lebʹa·non sent a message to the cedar in Lebʹa·non, ‘Give your daughter to my son as a wife.’ However, a wild beast of Lebʹa·non passed by and trampled down the thorny weed. <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You have said, ‘Look! I<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> have struck down Eʹdom.’ So your heart has become arrogant, wanting to be glorified. But now stay in your own house.<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> Why should you provoke disaster and fall, bringing Judah down with you?”</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Am·a·ziʹah did not listen, for this was from the true God to give them into the hand of the enemy, because they had followed the gods of Eʹdom. <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So King Je·hoʹash of Israel went up, and he and King Am·a·ziʹah of Judah confronted each other in battle at Beth-sheʹmesh, which belongs to Judah. <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Judah was defeated by Israel, so each one fled to his home.<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> King Je·hoʹash of Israel captured King Am·a·ziʹah of Judah, son of Je·hoʹash son of Je·hoʹa·haz,<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> at Beth-sheʹmesh. Then he brought him to Jerusalem and made a breach in the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Eʹphra·im to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits.<span id="footnotesource187"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote187">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He took all the gold and the silver and all the articles that were found in the house of the true God with<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> Oʹbed-eʹdom and in the treasuries of the king’s house,<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> as well as hostages. Then he returned to Sa·marʹi·a.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="pos92538"></span><span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Am·a·ziʹah the son of Je·hoʹash the king of Judah lived for 15 years after the death of Je·hoʹash the son of Je·hoʹa·haz the king of Israel. <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Am·a·ziʹah, from beginning to end, look! is it not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and of Israel? <span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> From the time that Am·a·ziʹah turned away from following Jehovah, they formed a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Laʹchish, but they sent men after him to Laʹchish and put him to death there. <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So they carried him back on horses and buried him with his forefathers in the city of Judah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p409" data-pid="409"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:5</span></a> Lit., “chosen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p410" data-pid="410"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:6</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p411" data-pid="411"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:17</span></a> Or “meet face-to-face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:19</span></a> Lit., “You.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:19</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p id="p414" data-pid="414"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:22</span></a> Lit., “tents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p id="p415" data-pid="415"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:23</span></a> Also called Ahaziah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote187"><p id="p416" data-pid="416"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource187">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:23</span></a> About 178 m (584 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p id="p417" data-pid="417"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:24</span></a> Or “under the care of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p418" data-pid="418"><a href="1001061118-split25.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 25:24</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
