<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_3.xhtml">1 - 51</a></p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos10194"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Now these were the family lines<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of Aaron and Moses in the day that Jehovah spoke with Moses on Mount Siʹnai. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> These were the names of Aaron’s sons: the firstborn Naʹdab, and A·biʹhu, El·e·aʹzar, and Ithʹa·mar. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> These were the names of Aaron’s sons, the anointed priests who had been installed<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> to serve as priests. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, Naʹdab and A·biʹhu died before Jehovah when they offered unauthorized fire before Jehovah in the wilderness of Siʹnai, and they did not have any sons. But El·e·aʹzar and Ithʹa·mar continued to serve as priests along with Aaron their father.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos10778"></span><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Moses: <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Bring the tribe of Leʹvi forward, and stand them before Aaron the priest, and they will minister to him. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They are to fulfill their responsibilities toward him and toward all the assembly before the tent of meeting by carrying out their service in connection with the tabernacle. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They are to take care of all the equipment of the tent of meeting and to carry out their responsibilities toward the Israelites by taking care of the services related to the tabernacle. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> You are to give the Levites to Aaron and his sons. They are given ones, given to him from the Israelites. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You should appoint Aaron and his sons, and they are to carry out their priestly duties, and any unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> who comes near should be put to death.”</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “As for me, look! I take the Levites from among the Israelites in place of all the firstborn<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> of the Israelites, and the Levites will become mine. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For every firstborn is mine. In the day that I struck every firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified to myself every firstborn in Israel from man to beast. They are to become mine. I am Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke further to Moses in the wilderness of Siʹnai, saying: <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Register the sons of Leʹvi by their paternal houses and by their families. You should register every male from a month old and up.” <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So Moses registered them at the order of Jehovah, just as he had been commanded. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> These were the names of the sons of Leʹvi: Gerʹshon, Koʹhath, and Me·rarʹi.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now these were the names of the sons of Gerʹshon by their families: Libʹni and Shimʹe·i.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Koʹhath by their families were Amʹram, Izʹhar, Hebʹron, and Uzʹzi·el.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi by their families were Mahʹli and Muʹshi.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="page219" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="219" data-before-text="219"></span>These were the families of the Levites by their paternal houses.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> From Gerʹshon came the family of the Libʹnites and the family of the Shimʹe·ites. These were the families of the Gerʹshon·ites. <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The number of all their males a month old and up who were registered was 7,500. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The families of the Gerʹshon·ites were encamped behind the tabernacle toward the west. <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The chieftain of the paternal house of the Gerʹshon·ites was E·liʹa·saph the son of Laʹel. <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The responsibility of the sons of Gerʹshon in the tent of meeting was to care for the tabernacle and the tent, its covering, the screen<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> of the entrance of the tent of meeting, <span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> the hanging curtains of the courtyard, the screen<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> of the entrance of the courtyard that surrounds the tabernacle and the altar, its tent cords, and all the service connected with these.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> From Koʹhath came the family of the Amʹram·ites, the family of the Izʹhar·ites, the family of the Hebʹron·ites, and the family of the Uz·ziʹel·ites. These were the families of the Koʹhath·ites. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The number of all the males from a month old and up was 8,600; they were responsible for taking care of the holy place. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The families of the sons of Koʹhath camped on the south side of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The chieftain of the paternal house of the families of the Koʹhath·ites was E·li·zaʹphan the son of Uzʹzi·el. <span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Their responsibility was to care for the Ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, the utensils used to minister in the holy place, the screen,<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> and all the service connected with these.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The head chieftain of the Levites was El·e·aʹzar the son of Aaron the priest, who had the oversight of those taking care of the responsibilities of the holy place.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> From Me·rarʹi came the family of the Mahʹlites and the family of the Muʹshites. These were the families of Me·rarʹi. <span id="chapter3_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The number of all the males from a month old and up who were registered was 6,200. <span id="chapter3_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The chieftain of the paternal house of the families of Me·rarʹi was Zuʹri·el the son of Abʹi·ha·il. They were encamped on the north side of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter3_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi were responsible for overseeing the panel frames of the tabernacle, its bars, its pillars, its socket pedestals, all its utensils, and all the service connected with these, <span id="chapter3_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> as well as the pillars that were all around the courtyard and their socket pedestals, their tent pins, and their tent cords.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Those camping in front of the tabernacle toward the east, before the tent of meeting toward the sunrise, were Moses and Aaron and his sons. They were responsible for taking care of the sanctuary as their obligation in behalf of the Israelites. Any unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> coming near would be put to death.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> All the Levite males from a month old and up, whom Moses and Aaron registered by their families at the order of Jehovah, were 22,000.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos15580"></span><span id="chapter3_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Register all the firstborn males of the Israelites from a month old and up, count them, and make a list of their names. <span id="chapter3_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> You must take the Levites for me—I am Jehovah—in place of all the firstborn of the Israelites, and take the domestic animals <span id="page220" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="220" data-before-text="220"></span>of the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the domestic animals of the Israelites.” <span id="chapter3_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Moses then registered all the firstborn among the Israelites, just as Jehovah had commanded him. <span id="chapter3_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> The number of all the firstborn males who were registered by name from a month old and up was 22,273.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter3_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> “Take the Levites in place of all the firstborn among the Israelites, and take the domestic animals of the Levites in place of their domestic animals, and the Levites must become mine. I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter3_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> As the ransom price of the 273 of the firstborn of the Israelites who are in excess of the Levites, <span id="chapter3_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> you are to take five shekels<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> for each individual, according to the standard shekel of the holy place.<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> A shekel is 20 geʹrahs.<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> You are to give the money to Aaron and his sons as the ransom price of those who are in excess of them.” <span id="chapter3_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> So Moses took the money of the redemption price from those who were in excess of the ransom price of the Levites. <span id="chapter3_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> He took the money from the firstborn of the Israelites, 1,365 shekels, according to the standard shekel of the holy place. <span id="chapter3_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Then Moses gave the money of the ransom price to Aaron and his sons according to the word<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> of Jehovah, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p416" data-pid="416"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:1</span></a> Lit., “the generations.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p417" data-pid="417"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:3</span></a> Lit., “whose hands had been filled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p418" data-pid="418"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:10</span></a> Lit., “any stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:12</span></a> Lit., “of every firstborn opening the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:25</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:26</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:31</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:38</span></a> Lit., “Any stranger,” that is, a non-Levite.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:47</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:47</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:47</span></a> A gerah equaled 0.57 g (0.01835 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p427" data-pid="427"><a href="1001061108-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 3:51</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
