<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_33.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p1027" data-pid="1027" class="p1027 sb"><span id="pos143411"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was still confined in the Courtyard of the Guard, saying: <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah the Maker of earth says, Jehovah who formed it and firmly established it; Jehovah is his name, <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> ‘Call to me, and I will answer you and readily tell you great and incomprehensible things that you have not known.’”</p>
<p id="p1028" data-pid="1028" class="p1028 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah the God of Israel says concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah that are pulled down because of the siege ramparts and the sword, <span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and concerning those who are coming to fight the Chal·deʹans, filling these places with the carcasses of those whom I struck down in my anger and in my wrath, those whose evil has caused me to hide my face from this city: <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> ‘Here I am bringing recuperation and health to her, and I will heal them and reveal to them an abundance of peace and truth. <span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And I will bring back the captives of Judah and the captives of Israel, and I will build them up as I did at the start. <span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And I will purify them from all the guilt of their sins against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sins and their transgressions against me. <span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And she will become to me a name of exultation, a praise, and a beauty before all the nations of the earth who will hear of all the goodness that I bestow on them. And they will be in dread and will tremble because of all the goodness and peace that I will bestow on her.’”</p>
<p id="p1029" data-pid="1029" class="p1029 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says: ‘In this place that you will say is a wasteland, without man or livestock, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man or inhabitant or livestock, there will again be heard <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the sound of exultation and the sound of rejoicing, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those saying: “Give thanks to Jehovah of armies, for Jehovah is good; his loyal love endures forever!”’</p>
<p id="p1030" data-pid="1030" class="p1030 sb">“‘They will bring thanksgiving offerings into the house of Jehovah, for I will bring back the captives of the land, as at the start,’ says Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p1031" data-pid="1031" class="p1031 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says: ‘In this wasteland, without man or livestock, and in all its cities, there will again be pastures for the shepherds to rest their flocks.’</p>
<p id="p1032" data-pid="1032" class="p1032 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘In the cities of the mountainous region, in the cities of the lowland, in the cities of the south, in the land of Benjamin, in the areas around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, flocks will again pass under the hands of the one counting them,’ says Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p1033" data-pid="1033" class="p1033 sb"><span id="pos145983"></span><span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘Look! The days are coming,’ declares Jehovah, ‘when I will fulfill the good promise that I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and the house of Judah. <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In those days and at that time I will cause to sprout for David a righteous sprout,<span id="footnotesource292"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote292">*</a> and he will execute justice and righteousness in the land. <span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> In those days Judah will be saved and Jerusalem will reside <span id="page1087" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1087" data-before-text="1087"></span>in security. And this is what she will be called: Jehovah Is Our Righteousness.’”</p>
<p id="p1034" data-pid="1034" class="p1034 sb"><span id="pos146460"></span><span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah says: ‘There will never fail to be a man from David’s line to sit on the throne of the house of Israel, <span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> nor will the Levitical priests ever fail to have a man stand before me to offer whole burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to offer sacrifices.’”</p>
<p id="p1035" data-pid="1035" class="p1035 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to Jeremiah, saying: <span id="pos146818"></span><span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says, ‘If you could break my covenant regarding the day and my covenant regarding the night, to prevent day and night from coming at their proper time, <span id="chapter33_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> only then could my covenant with my servant David be broken, so that he should not have a son ruling as king on his throne, and so also my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers. <span id="chapter33_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Just as the army of the heavens cannot be counted and the sand of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring<span id="footnotesource293"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote293">*</a> of my servant David and the Levites who are ministering to me.’”</p>
<p id="p1036" data-pid="1036" class="p1036 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to Jeremiah, saying: <span id="chapter33_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Have you not taken note of what this people is saying, ‘Jehovah will reject the two families that he chose’? And they are treating my own people with disrespect, and they no longer regard them as a nation.</p>
<p id="p1037" data-pid="1037" class="p1037 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says: ‘Just as surely as I have established my covenant regarding the day and the night, the laws<span id="footnotesource294"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote294">*</a> of heaven and earth, <span id="chapter33_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> so I will never reject the offspring<span id="footnotesource295"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote295">*</a> of Jacob and of my servant David, so as not to take from his offspring<span id="footnotesource296"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote296">*</a> rulers over the descendants<span id="footnotesource297"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote297">*</a> of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will gather back their captives and have pity on them.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote292"><p id="p1869" data-pid="1869"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource292">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:15</span></a> Or “heir.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote293"><p id="p1870" data-pid="1870"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource293">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:22</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote294"><p id="p1871" data-pid="1871"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource294">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:25</span></a> Or “statutes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote295"><p id="p1872" data-pid="1872"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource295">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:26</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote296"><p id="p1873" data-pid="1873"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource296">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:26</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote297"><p id="p1874" data-pid="1874"><a href="1001061128-split33.xhtml#footnotesource297">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 33:26</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
