<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_13.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="page130" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="130" data-before-text="130"></span><span id="pos50930"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Sanctify<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> to me every firstborn male<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> among the Israelites. The first male to be born, of both human and animal, belongs to me.”</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos51112"></span><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Moses said to the people: “Remember this day on which you went out of Egypt, from the house of slavery, because with a mighty hand Jehovah brought you out of here. So nothing leavened may be eaten. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You are going out on this day, in the month of Aʹbib.<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When Jehovah has brought you into the land of the Caʹnaan·ites, the Hitʹtites, the Amʹor·ites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites, which he swore to your forefathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, then you must keep this observance in this month. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Seven days you are to eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day, there will be a festival to Jehovah. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Unleavened bread is to be eaten for the seven days; and nothing leavened is to be found with you, and no sourdough is to be found with you within all your territory.<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And you must tell your son on that day, ‘It is because of what Jehovah did for me when I came out of Egypt.’ <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And this will serve for you as a sign on your hand and as a memorial<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> on your forehead,<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> so that Jehovah’s law may be in your mouth, for with a mighty hand Jehovah brought you out of Egypt. <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You must keep this statute at its appointed time from year to year.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos52319"></span><span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “When Jehovah brings you into the land of the Caʹnaan·ites, which he has sworn to you and to your forefathers to give to you, <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> you must devote to Jehovah every firstborn male,<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> as well as every male firstling of the livestock that you acquire. The males belong to Jehovah. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Every firstling donkey you are to redeem with a sheep, and if you do not redeem it, then you must break its neck. And every firstborn male of your sons you are to redeem.</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “In case your son should ask you later on, ‘What does this mean?’ then you should say to him, ‘With a mighty hand Jehovah brought us out of Egypt, from the house of slavery. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When Pharʹaoh stubbornly refused to send us away, Jehovah killed every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of man to the firstborn of beast. That is why I am sacrificing to Jehovah all the firstborn males,<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> and I redeem every firstborn of my sons.’ <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This must serve as a sign on your hand and as a headband on your forehead,<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> for with a mighty hand Jehovah brought us out of Egypt.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos53372"></span><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now when Pharʹaoh sent the people away, God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Phi·lisʹtines, although it was near. For God said: “The people may change their minds when they are confronted by war and will return to Egypt.” <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So God made the people go around by the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea. But it was in battle formation that the Israelites went up out of the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Moses also took Joseph’s bones with him, because Joseph had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear: “God will not fail to turn his attention to you, and you must take my <span id="page131" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="131" data-before-text="131"></span>bones up out of here with you.” <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> They departed from Sucʹcoth and encamped at Eʹtham, at the edge of the wilderness.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos54091"></span><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Now Jehovah was going ahead of them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they could travel by day and by night. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The pillar of cloud would not move away from before the people during the day, nor the pillar of fire at night.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p444" data-pid="444"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:2</span></a> Or “Set apart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p445" data-pid="445"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:2</span></a> Lit., “every firstborn that opens each womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p446" data-pid="446"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p447" data-pid="447"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:7</span></a> Lit., “boundaries.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:9</span></a> Or “reminder.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:9</span></a> Lit., “between your eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:12</span></a> Lit., “everyone that opens the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:15</span></a> Lit., “everything that opens the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061106-split13.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 13:16</span></a> Lit., “between your eyes.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
