<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_22.xhtml">1 - 71</a></p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="pos124431"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Now the Festival of the Unleavened Bread, which is called Passover, was getting near. <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And the chief priests and the scribes were looking for an effective way to get rid of him, because they were afraid of the people. <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Satan entered into Judas, the one called Is·carʹi·ot, who was numbered among the Twelve, <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and he went off and talked with the chief priests and temple captains about how to betray him to them. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They were delighted at this and agreed to give him silver money. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So he consented and began looking for a good opportunity to betray him to them without a crowd around.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="pos125043"></span><span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The day of the Unleavened Bread now arrived, on which the Passover sacrifice must be <span id="page1418" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1418" data-before-text="1418"></span>offered; <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> so Jesus sent Peter and John, saying: “Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.” <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> They said to him: “Where do you want us to get it ready?” <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> He said to them: “Look! When you enter into the city, a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And say to the landlord of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you: “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’ <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And that man will show you a large, furnished upper room. Get it ready there.” <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So they left and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared for the Passover.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos125783"></span><span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So when the hour came, he reclined at the table along with the apostles. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And he said to them: “I have greatly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer; <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for I tell you, I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.” <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And accepting a cup, he gave thanks and said: “Take this and pass it from one to the other among yourselves, <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> for I tell you, from now on, I will not drink again from the product of the vine until the Kingdom of God comes.”</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Also, he took a loaf, gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them, saying: “This means my body, which is to be given in your behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.” <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Also, he did the same with the cup after they had the evening meal, saying: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf.</p>
<p id="p198" data-pid="198" class="p198 sb"><span id="pos126657"></span><span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “But look! the hand of my betrayer is with me at the table. <span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For, indeed, the Son of man is going his way according to what has been determined; all the same, woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!” <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So they began to discuss among themselves which one of them could really be about to do this.</p>
<p id="p199" data-pid="199" class="p199 sb"><span id="pos126980"></span><span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> However, there also arose a heated dispute among them over which one of them was considered to be the greatest. <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But he said to them: “The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those having authority over them are called Benefactors. <span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> You, though, are not to be that way. But let the one who is the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the one taking the lead as the one ministering. <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For which one is greater, the one dining<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> or the one serving?<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> Is it not the one dining?<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> But I am among you as the one serving.<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a></p>
<p id="p200" data-pid="200" class="p200 sb"><span id="pos127541"></span><span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “However, you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials; <span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and I make a covenant with you, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, <span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> so that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the 12 tribes of Israel.</p>
<p id="p201" data-pid="201" class="p201 sb"><span id="pos127836"></span><span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Simon, Simon, look! Satan has demanded to have all of you to sift you as wheat. <span id="chapter22_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But I have made supplication for you that your faith may not give out; and you, once you have returned, strengthen your brothers.” <span id="chapter22_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Then he said to him: “Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death.” <span id="chapter22_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But he said: “I tell you, Peter, a rooster will not crow today until you have denied knowing me three times.”</p>
<p id="p202" data-pid="202" class="p202 sb"><span id="pos128275"></span><span id="chapter22_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> He also said to them: “When I sent you out without a money bag and a food pouch and <span id="page1419" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1419" data-before-text="1419"></span>sandals, you did not lack anything, did you?” They said: “No!” <span id="chapter22_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “But now let the one who has a money bag take it, likewise a food pouch, and let the one who has no sword sell his outer garment and buy one. <span id="chapter22_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> For I tell you that what is written must be accomplished in me, namely, ‘He was counted with lawless ones.’ For this is being fulfilled concerning me.” <span id="chapter22_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then they said: “Lord, look! here are two swords.” He said to them: “It is enough.”</p>
<p id="p203" data-pid="203" class="p203 sb"><span id="pos128857"></span><span id="chapter22_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> On leaving, he went as was his custom to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples also followed him. <span id="chapter22_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> On arriving at the place, he said to them: “Carry on prayer so that you do not enter into temptation.” <span id="chapter22_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And he withdrew from them about a stone’s throw away, and he bent his knees and began to pray, <span id="chapter22_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> saying: “Father, if you want to, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, let, not my will, but yours take place.” <span id="chapter22_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Then an angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. <span id="chapter22_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> But he was in such agony that he kept praying more earnestly; and his sweat became as drops of blood falling to the ground. <span id="chapter22_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> When he rose from prayer and went to the disciples, he found them slumbering, exhausted from grief. <span id="chapter22_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> He said to them: “Why are you sleeping? Get up and keep praying, so that you do not enter into temptation.”</p>
<p id="p204" data-pid="204" class="p204 sb"><span id="pos129726"></span><span id="chapter22_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> While he was still speaking, look! a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the Twelve, was leading them, and he approached Jesus to kiss him. <span id="chapter22_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> But Jesus said to him: “Judas, are you betraying the Son of man with a kiss?” <span id="chapter22_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> When those around him saw what was going to happen, they said: “Lord, should we strike with the sword?” <span id="chapter22_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> One of them even struck the slave of the high priest, taking off his right ear. <span id="chapter22_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> But in reply Jesus said: “That is enough.” And he touched the ear and healed him. <span id="chapter22_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> Jesus then said to the chief priests and captains of the temple and elders who had come there for him: “Did you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber? <span id="chapter22_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> While I was with you in the temple day after day, you did not lay your hands on me. But this is your hour and the authority of darkness.”</p>
<p id="p205" data-pid="205" class="p205 sb"><span id="pos130570"></span><span id="chapter22_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Then they arrested him and led him off, and they brought him into the house of the high priest; but Peter was following at a distance. <span id="chapter22_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> When they lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter was sitting among them. <span id="chapter22_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> But a servant girl, seeing him sitting in the light of the fire, looked closely at him and said: “This man was also with him.” <span id="chapter22_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> But he denied it, saying: “I do not know him, woman.” <span id="chapter22_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> After a short time another person saw him and said: “You too are one of them.” But Peter said: “Man, I am not.” <span id="chapter22_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> And after about an hour had passed, another man began insisting strongly: “Certainly this man was also with him, for he is, in fact, a Gal·i·leʹan!” <span id="chapter22_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> But Peter said: “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” And instantly, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. <span id="chapter22_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> At this the Lord turned and looked straight at Peter, and Peter recalled the statement of the Lord when he had said to him: “Before a rooster crows today, you will disown me three times.” <span id="chapter22_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> And he went outside and wept bitterly.</p>
<p id="p206" data-pid="206" class="p206 sb"><span id="pos131664"></span><span id="chapter22_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> Now the men who held Jesus in custody began to mock <span id="page1420" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1420" data-before-text="1420"></span>him, hitting him; <span id="chapter22_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> and after covering his face, they kept asking: “Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?” <span id="chapter22_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> And they said many other blasphemous things against him.</p>
<p id="p207" data-pid="207" class="p207 sb"><span id="pos131905"></span><span id="chapter22_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> And when it became day, the assembly of elders of the people, both chief priests and scribes, gathered together, and they led him into their Sanʹhe·drin hall and said: <span id="chapter22_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> “If you are the Christ, tell us.” But he said to them: “Even if I told you, you would not believe it at all. <span id="chapter22_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> Moreover, if I questioned you, you would not answer. <span id="chapter22_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> However, from now on the Son of man will be seated at the powerful right hand of God.” <span id="chapter22_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> At this they all said: “Are you, therefore, the Son of God?” He said to them: “You yourselves are saying that I am.” <span id="chapter22_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> They said: “Why do we need further testimony? For we ourselves have heard it out of his own mouth.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p431" data-pid="431"><a href="1001061146-split22.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 22:27</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p432" data-pid="432"><a href="1001061146-split22.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 22:27</span></a> Or “ministering.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p433" data-pid="433"><a href="1001061146-split22.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 22:27</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p434" data-pid="434"><a href="1001061146-split22.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 22:27</span></a> Or “ministering.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
