<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_27.xhtml">1 - 66</a></p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="pos124089"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27</strong> </span>When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people consulted together against Jesus to put him to death. <span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> After binding him, they led him off and handed him over to Pilate, the governor.</p>
<p id="p225" data-pid="225" class="p225 sb"><span id="pos124304"></span><span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Judas, his betrayer, seeing that Jesus had been condemned, felt remorse and brought the 30 pieces of silver back to the chief priests and elders, <span id="chapter27_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> saying: “I sinned when I betrayed innocent blood.” They said: “What is that to us? You must see to it!”<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he threw the silver pieces into the temple and departed. Then he went off and hanged himself. <span id="chapter27_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But the chief priests took the silver pieces and said: “It is not lawful to put them into the sacred treasury, because they are the price of blood.” <span id="chapter27_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> After consulting together, they used the money to buy the potter’s field as a burial place for strangers. <span id="chapter27_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Therefore, that field has been called Field of Blood to this very day. <span id="chapter27_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then what was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled: “And they took the 30 silver pieces, the price that was set on the man, the one on whom a price was set by some of the sons of Israel, <span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and they gave them for the potter’s field, according to what Jehovah<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> had commanded me.”</p>
<p id="p226" data-pid="226" class="p226 sb"><span id="pos125306"></span><span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jesus now stood before the governor, and the governor put the question to him: “Are you the King of the Jews?” Jesus replied: “You yourself say it.” <span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But while he was being accused by the chief priests and elders, he made no answer. <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Pilate said to him: “Do you not hear how many things they are testifying against you?” <span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But he did not answer him, no, not a word, so that the governor was very surprised.</p>
<p id="p227" data-pid="227" class="p227 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now from festival to festival, it was the custom of the governor to release a prisoner to the crowd, whomever they wanted. <span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Just at that time they were holding a notorious prisoner called Bar·abʹbas. <span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So when they were gathered together, Pilate said to them: “Which one do you want me to release to you, Bar·abʹbas or Jesus the so-called Christ?” <span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For Pilate was aware that out of envy they had handed him over. <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Moreover, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent a message to him, saying: “Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I suffered a lot today in a dream because of him.” <span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds to ask for Bar·abʹbas, but to have Jesus put to death. <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In response the governor said to them: “Which of the two do you want me to release to you?” They said: “Bar·abʹbas.” <span id="chapter27_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Pilate said to them: “What, then, should I do with Jesus the so-called Christ?” They all said: “To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He said: “Why? What bad thing did he do?” Still they kept shouting out all the more: “To the stake with him!”</p>
<p id="p228" data-pid="228" class="p228 sb"><span id="page1346" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1346" data-before-text="1346"></span><span id="chapter27_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Seeing that it did no good but, rather, an uproar was arising, Pilate took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying: “I am innocent of the blood of this man. You yourselves must see to it.” <span id="chapter27_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At that all the people said in answer: “Let his blood come upon us and upon our children.” <span id="chapter27_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then he released Bar·abʹbas to them, but he had Jesus whipped and handed him over to be executed on the stake.</p>
<p id="p229" data-pid="229" class="p229 sb"><span id="pos127306"></span><span id="chapter27_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor’s residence and gathered the whole body of troops together around him. <span id="chapter27_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And disrobing him, they draped him with a scarlet cloak, <span id="chapter27_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and they braided a crown out of thorns and put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying: “Greetings,<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> you King of the Jews!” <span id="chapter27_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And they spat on him and took the reed and began hitting him on his head. <span id="chapter27_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Finally, after they had mocked him, they stripped him of the cloak and put his outer garments on him and led him off to be nailed to the stake.</p>
<p id="p230" data-pid="230" class="p230 sb"><span id="pos127935"></span><span id="chapter27_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> As they were going out, they found a man of Cy·reʹne named Simon. This man they compelled into service to carry his torture stake.<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And when they came to a place called <em>Golʹgo·tha,</em> that is, Skull Place, <span id="chapter27_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> they gave him wine mixed with gall<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> to drink; but after tasting it, he refused to drink it. <span id="chapter27_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> When they had nailed him to the stake, they distributed his outer garments by casting lots, <span id="chapter27_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> and they sat there keeping watch over him. <span id="chapter27_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They also posted above his head the charge against him, in writing: “This is Jesus the King of the Jews.”</p>
<p id="p231" data-pid="231" class="p231 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then two robbers were put on stakes alongside him, one on his right and one on his left. <span id="chapter27_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And those passing by spoke abusively of him, shaking their heads <span id="chapter27_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> and saying: “You who would throw down the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! If you are a son of God, come down off the torture stake!”<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> In the same way also, the chief priests with the scribes and the elders began mocking him, saying: <span id="chapter27_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> “Others he saved; himself he cannot save! He is King of Israel; let him now come down off the torture stake,<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> and we will believe in him. <span id="chapter27_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> He has put his trust in God; let Him now rescue him if He wants him, for he said, ‘I am God’s Son.’” <span id="chapter27_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> In the same way, even the robbers who were on stakes alongside him were reproaching him.</p>
<p id="p232" data-pid="232" class="p232 sb"><span id="pos129319"></span><span id="chapter27_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> From the sixth hour<span id="footnotesource187"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote187">*</a> on, a darkness fell over all the land until the ninth hour.<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> About the ninth hour, Jesus called out with a loud voice, saying: <em>“Eʹli, Eʹli, laʹma sa·bach·thaʹni?”</em> that is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” <span id="chapter27_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> At hearing this, some of those standing there began to say: “This man is calling E·liʹjah.” <span id="chapter27_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> And immediately one of them ran and took a sponge and soaked it in sour wine and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. <span id="chapter27_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> But the rest of them said: “Let him be! Let us see whether E·liʹjah comes to save him.” <span id="chapter27_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Again Jesus called out with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a></p>
<p id="p233" data-pid="233" class="p233 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> And look! the curtain of the sanctuary was torn in two, from top to bottom, and the earth quaked, and the rocks <span id="page1347" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1347" data-before-text="1347"></span>were split. <span id="chapter27_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And the tombs<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> were opened, and many bodies of the holy ones who had fallen asleep were raised up <span id="chapter27_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> (and people coming out from among the tombs after his being raised up entered into the holy city), and they became visible to many people. <span id="chapter27_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> But when the army officer and those with him keeping watch over Jesus saw the earthquake and the things happening, they grew very much afraid and said: “Certainly this was God’s Son.”</p>
<p id="p234" data-pid="234" class="p234 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> And many women were there watching from a distance, who had accompanied Jesus from Galʹi·lee to minister to him; <span id="chapter27_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> among them were Mary Magʹda·lene and Mary the mother of James and Joʹses and the mother of the sons of Zebʹe·dee.</p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="pos130834"></span><span id="chapter27_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Now as it was late in the afternoon, a rich man of Ar·i·ma·theʹa came, named Joseph, who had also become a disciple of Jesus. <span id="chapter27_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> This man approached Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded that it be given to him. <span id="chapter27_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> Joseph took the body, wrapped it up in clean, fine linen, <span id="chapter27_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> and laid it in his new tomb,<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> which he had quarried in the rock. And after rolling a big stone to the entrance of the tomb,<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> he left. <span id="chapter27_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> But Mary Magʹda·lene and the other Mary continued there, sitting before the grave.</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sb"><span id="pos131382"></span><span id="chapter27_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> The next day, which was after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together before Pilate, <span id="chapter27_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> saying: “Sir, we recall what that impostor said while he was still alive, ‘After three days I am to be raised up.’ <span id="chapter27_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> Therefore, command that the grave be made secure until the third day, so that his disciples may not come and steal him and say to the people, ‘He was raised up from the dead!’ Then this last deception will be worse than the first.” <span id="chapter27_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> Pilate said to them: “You may have a guard. Go make it as secure as you know how.” <span id="chapter27_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> So they went and made the grave secure by sealing the stone and posting a guard.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:4</span></a> Or “That is your problem!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:22</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:29</span></a> Or “Hail.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p427" data-pid="427"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:34</span></a> A bitter liquid.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p id="p428" data-pid="428"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:40</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p id="p429" data-pid="429"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:42</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote187"><p id="p430" data-pid="430"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource187">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:45</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p id="p431" data-pid="431"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:45</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p432" data-pid="432"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:50</span></a> Or “and expired.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p id="p433" data-pid="433"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:52</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p id="p434" data-pid="434"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:60</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p id="p435" data-pid="435"><a href="1001061144-split27.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 27:60</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
