<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_33.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p278" data-pid="278" class="p278 sb"><span id="pos132050"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33</strong> </span>Now Jacob raised his eyes and saw Eʹsau coming, and 400 men were with him. So he divided the children among Leʹah, Rachel, and the two female servants. <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He put the female servants and their children in front, Leʹah and her children after them, and Rachel and Joseph behind them. <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then he himself went ahead of them and bowed down to the earth seven times as he came near to his brother.</p>
<p id="p279" data-pid="279" class="p279 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But Eʹsau ran to meet him, and he embraced him and kissed him, and they burst into tears. <span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When he raised his eyes and saw the women and the children, he said: “Who are these with you?” to which he said: “The children with whom God has favored your servant.” <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At that the female servants came forward with their children and bowed down, <span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and Leʹah too came forward with her children, and they bowed down. Then Joseph came forward with Rachel, and they bowed down.</p>
<p id="p280" data-pid="280" class="p280 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Eʹsau said: “What is the purpose of all this camp of travelers that I have met?” He replied: “In order to find favor in the eyes of my lord.” <span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then Eʹsau said: “I have a great many possessions, my brother. Keep what is yours.” <span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> However, Jacob said: “No, please. If I have found favor in your eyes, you must take my gift from my hand, because I brought it so that I could see your face. And I have seen your face as though seeing God’s face, in that you received me with pleasure. <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Take, please, the gift conveying my blessing that was brought to you, for God has favored me and I have everything I need.” And he continued to urge him, so that he took it.</p>
<p id="p281" data-pid="281" class="p281 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Later Eʹsau said: “Let us move out and go, and let me go in advance of you.” <span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But he said to him: “My lord is aware that the children are delicate and that in my care are sheep and cattle nursing their young. If they are driven too quickly for one day, then the whole flock will die. <span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Let my lord, please, go on ahead of his servant, but I will continue the journey more slowly at the pace of my livestock and of the children until I come to my lord at Seʹir.” <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Eʹsau said: “Please, let me leave some of my people with you.” To this he said: “Why do this? Just let me find favor in the eyes of my lord.” <span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So that day Eʹsau went on his way back to Seʹir.</p>
<p id="p282" data-pid="282" class="p282 sb"><span id="pos134301"></span><span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And Jacob journeyed to Sucʹcoth, and he built a house for himself and he made shelters for his herd. That was why he named the place Sucʹcoth.<span id="footnotesource254"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote254">*</a></p>
<p id="p283" data-pid="283" class="p283 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> After journeying from Padʹdan-aʹram, Jacob arrived safely at the city of Sheʹchem in the land of Caʹnaan, and he set up his camp near the city. <span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then he acquired a portion of the field where he pitched his tent from the sons of Haʹmor, the father of Sheʹchem, for 100 <span id="page87" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="87" data-before-text="87"></span>pieces of money. <span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> There he set up an altar and called it God, the God of Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote254"><p id="p721" data-pid="721"><a href="1001061105-split33.xhtml#footnotesource254">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 33:17</span></a> Meaning “Booths; Shelters.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
