<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_17.xhtml">1 - 41</a></p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos80278"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>In the 12th year of King Aʹhaz of Judah, Ho·sheʹa the son of Eʹlah became king over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a; he ruled for nine years. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, only not to the extent of the kings of Israel prior to him. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> King Shal·man·eʹser of As·syrʹi·a came up against him, and Ho·sheʹa became his servant and began to pay tribute to him. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, the king of As·syrʹi·a learned that Ho·sheʹa was involved in a conspiracy, for he had sent messengers to King So of Egypt and did not bring the tribute up to the king of As·syrʹi·a as in former years. Therefore, the king of As·syrʹi·a kept him confined and bound in prison.</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos80943"></span><span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The king of As·syrʹi·a invaded the entire land, and he came to Sa·marʹi·a and laid siege to it <span id="page550" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="550" data-before-text="550"></span>for three years. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In the ninth year of Ho·sheʹa, the king of As·syrʹi·a captured Sa·marʹi·a. He then led the people of Israel into exile in As·syrʹi·a and made them dwell in Haʹlah and in Haʹbor at the river Goʹzan and in the cities of the Medes.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="pos81300"></span><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> This happened because the people of Israel had sinned against Jehovah their God, who brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the control of Pharʹaoh king of Egypt. They worshipped<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> other gods, <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> they followed the customs of the nations that Jehovah had driven out from before the Israelites, and they followed the customs that the kings of Israel had established.</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The Israelites were pursuing the things that were not right according to Jehovah their God. They kept building high places in all their cities, from watchtower to fortified city.<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They kept setting up for themselves sacred pillars and sacred poles<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> on every high hill and under every luxuriant tree; <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and on all the high places they would make sacrificial smoke just as the nations did that Jehovah had driven into exile from before them. They kept doing wicked things to offend Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They continued to serve disgusting idols,<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> about which Jehovah had told them: “You must not do this!” <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jehovah kept warning Israel and Judah through all his prophets and every visionary, saying: “Turn back from your wicked ways! Keep my commandments and my statutes according to all the law that I commanded your forefathers and that I sent to you through my servants the prophets.” <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But they did not listen, and they remained just as stubborn as<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> their forefathers who had not shown faith in Jehovah their God. <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They continued rejecting his regulations and his covenant that he had made with their forefathers and his reminders that he had given to warn them, and they kept following worthless idols and became worthless themselves, imitating the nations all around them that Jehovah had commanded them not to imitate.</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They kept leaving all the commandments of Jehovah their God, and they made metal statues<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> of two calves and a sacred pole,<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> and they bowed down to all the army of the heavens and served Baʹal. <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They also made their sons and their daughters pass through the fire, they practiced divination and looked for omens, and they kept devoting<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> themselves to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, to offend him.</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Jehovah was very angry with Israel, so that he removed them from his sight. He did not let any remain but the tribe of Judah alone.</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Even Judah did not keep the commandments of Jehovah their God; they also walked in the customs that Israel followed. <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Jehovah rejected all the descendants of Israel and humiliated them and gave them into the hand of plunderers, until he had cast them away from before him. <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He ripped Israel away from the house of David, and they made <span id="page551" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="551" data-before-text="551"></span>Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat king. But Jer·o·boʹam caused Israel to stray from following Jehovah, and he caused them to commit a great sin. <span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the people of Israel kept walking in all the sins that Jer·o·boʹam had committed. They did not depart from them <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> until Jehovah removed Israel from his sight, just as he had declared through all his servants the prophets. So Israel was taken into exile from its land to As·syrʹi·a, where they remain to this day.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos84444"></span><span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The king of As·syrʹi·a then brought people from Babylon, Cuʹthah, Avʹva, Haʹmath, and Seph·ar·vaʹim and settled them in the cities of Sa·marʹi·a in place of the Israelites; they took possession of Sa·marʹi·a and lived in its cities. <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When they first began dwelling there, they did not fear<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> Jehovah. So Jehovah sent lions among them, and they killed some of the people. <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> It was reported to the king of As·syrʹi·a: “The nations that you have taken into exile and resettled in the cities of Sa·marʹi·a do not know the religion<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> of the God of the land. So he keeps sending lions among them, which are putting them to death, because none of them know the religion of the God of the land.”</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="pos85149"></span><span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> At that the king of As·syrʹi·a commanded: “Have one of the priests whom you took into exile from there return to live there and to teach them the religion of the God of the land.” <span id="chapter17_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So one of the priests whom they had taken into exile from Sa·marʹi·a came back to live in Bethʹel, and he began to teach them how they should fear<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> However, each different nation made their own god,<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> which they placed in the houses of worship on the high places that the Sa·marʹi·tans had made; each different nation did so in their cities where they were living. <span id="chapter17_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So the men of Babylon made Sucʹcoth-beʹnoth, the men of Cuth made Nerʹgal, the men of Haʹmath made A·shiʹma, <span id="chapter17_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and the Avʹvites made Nibʹhaz and Tarʹtak. The Seʹphar·vites would burn their sons in the fire to A·dramʹme·lech and A·namʹme·lech, the gods of Seph·ar·vaʹim. <span id="chapter17_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Although they feared Jehovah, they appointed priests for the high places from the people in general, and these officiated for them at the houses of worship on the high places. <span id="chapter17_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Thus, they feared Jehovah, but they worshipped their own gods according to the religion<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> of the nations from which they had been deported.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> To this day they follow their former religions.<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> None of them worship<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> Jehovah, and none follow his statutes, his judgments, the Law, and the commandment that Jehovah gave the sons of Jacob, whose name he changed to Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> When Jehovah made a covenant with them, he commanded them: “You must not fear other gods, and you must not bow down to them or serve them or sacrifice to them. <span id="chapter17_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But Jehovah, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and an outstretched arm, is the One you should fear, and to him you should bow down, and to him you should sacrifice. <span id="chapter17_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And the regulations, the judgments, the Law, and the commandment that he wrote for you, you should always follow carefully, and you must not fear other gods. <span id="chapter17_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And you must <span id="page552" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="552" data-before-text="552"></span>not forget the covenant that I made with you, and you must not fear other gods. <span id="chapter17_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But it is Jehovah your God whom you should fear, as he is the one who will rescue you out of the hand of all your enemies.”</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But they did not obey, and they followed their former religion.<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> <span id="chapter17_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> So these nations came to fear Jehovah, but they were also serving their own graven images. Both their sons and their grandsons have done just as their forefathers did, down to this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p344" data-pid="344"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:7</span></a> Lit., “feared.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p345" data-pid="345"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:9</span></a> That is, in every place, whether sparsely inhabited or populous.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p346" data-pid="346"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p347" data-pid="347"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:12</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p348" data-pid="348"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:14</span></a> Lit., “hardened their neck like the neck of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:16</span></a> Or “molten statues.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p350" data-pid="350"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p351" data-pid="351"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:17</span></a> Lit., “selling.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:25</span></a> Or “worship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p353" data-pid="353"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:26</span></a> Or “religious customs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p354" data-pid="354"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:28</span></a> Or “worship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p355" data-pid="355"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:29</span></a> Or “gods.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p356" data-pid="356"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:33</span></a> Or “religious customs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p357" data-pid="357"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:34</span></a> Or “religious customs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p358" data-pid="358"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:34</span></a> Lit., “fear.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p359" data-pid="359"><a href="1001061116-split17.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 17:40</span></a> Or “religious customs.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
