<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 40</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">40</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_40.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p350" data-pid="350" class="p350 sb"><span id="pos161088"></span><span id="chapter40"></span><span id="chapter40_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>40</strong> </span>After these things, the chief cupbearer of the king of Egypt and the chief baker sinned against their lord, the king of Egypt. <span id="chapter40_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So Pharʹaoh grew indignant at his two officers, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker, <span id="chapter40_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and he committed them to the jail of the house of the chief of the guard, to the place where Joseph was a prisoner. <span id="chapter40_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then the chief of the guard assigned Joseph to be with them and to take care of them, and they remained in jail for some time.<span id="footnotesource285"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote285">*</a></p>
<p id="p351" data-pid="351" class="p351 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, each had a dream on the same night, and each dream had its own interpretation. <span id="chapter40_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The next morning, when Joseph came in and saw them, they looked dejected. <span id="chapter40_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So he asked the officers of Pharʹaoh who were in custody with him in his master’s house: “Why are your faces gloomy today?” <span id="pos161937"></span><span id="chapter40_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At this they said to him: “We each had a dream, but there is no interpreter with us.” Joseph said to them: “Do not interpretations belong to God? Relate it to me, please.”</p>
<p id="p352" data-pid="352" class="p352 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So the chief cupbearer related his dream to Joseph, saying to him: “In my dream, there was a vine before me. <span id="chapter40_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And on the vine, there were three twigs, and as it was sprouting shoots, it blossomed, and its clusters ripened into grapes. <span id="chapter40_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And Pharʹaoh’s cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and squeezed them out into Pharʹaoh’s cup. After that I put the cup in Pharʹaoh’s hand.” <span id="chapter40_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Joseph said to him: “This is its interpretation: The three twigs are three days. <span id="chapter40_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Three days from now, Pharʹaoh will bring you out,<span id="footnotesource286"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote286">*</a> restoring you to your office, and you will put Pharʹaoh’s cup into his hand as you did before when you were his cupbearer. <span id="chapter40_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Nevertheless, you must remember me <span id="page96" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="96" data-before-text="96"></span>when things go well with you. Please show me loyal love and mention me to Pharʹaoh, in order to get me out of this place. <span id="chapter40_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I was, in fact, kidnapped from the land of the Hebrews, and I have not done anything here for which they should put me in prison.”<span id="footnotesource287"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote287">*</a></p>
<p id="p353" data-pid="353" class="p353 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When the chief baker saw that Joseph had interpreted something good, he said to him: “I too was in my dream, and there were three baskets of white bread on my head, <span id="chapter40_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and in the top basket, there were all sorts of baked goods for Pharʹaoh, and there were birds eating them out of the basket on top of my head.” <span id="chapter40_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Joseph answered, “This is its interpretation: The three baskets are three days. <span id="chapter40_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Three days from now, Pharʹaoh will behead you<span id="footnotesource288"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote288">*</a> and will hang you on a stake, and the birds will eat your flesh from you.”</p>
<p id="p354" data-pid="354" class="p354 sb"><span id="pos163638"></span><span id="chapter40_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now the third day was Pharʹaoh’s birthday, and he made a feast for all his servants, and he brought out<span id="footnotesource289"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote289">*</a> both the chief cupbearer and the chief baker in the presence of his servants. <span id="chapter40_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And he returned the chief cupbearer to his post of cupbearer, and he continued to hand the cup to Pharʹaoh. <span id="chapter40_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But he hanged the chief baker, just as Joseph had interpreted to them. <span id="chapter40_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> However, the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph; he kept forgetting him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote285"><p id="p752" data-pid="752"><a href="1001061105-split40.xhtml#footnotesource285">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 40:4</span></a> Lit., “days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote286"><p id="p753" data-pid="753"><a href="1001061105-split40.xhtml#footnotesource286">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 40:13</span></a> Lit., “lift up your head.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote287"><p id="p754" data-pid="754"><a href="1001061105-split40.xhtml#footnotesource287">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 40:15</span></a> Lit., “the cistern; the pit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote288"><p id="p755" data-pid="755"><a href="1001061105-split40.xhtml#footnotesource288">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 40:19</span></a> Lit., “lift up your head from you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote289"><p id="p756" data-pid="756"><a href="1001061105-split40.xhtml#footnotesource289">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 40:20</span></a> Lit., “he lifted up the head of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
