<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_11.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="pos37640"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>At the start of the year,<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> at the time when kings go on campaigns, David sent Joʹab and his servants and the entire army of Israel to bring the Amʹmon·ites to ruin, and they besieged Rabʹbah, while David stayed in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> One evening<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> David got up from his bed and walked around on the rooftop of the king’s house.<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> From the rooftop he saw a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> David sent someone to inquire about the woman, and he reported: “Is this not Bath-sheʹba the daughter of E·liʹam and the wife of U·riʹah the Hitʹtite?” <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then David sent messengers to bring her. So she came in to him, and he lay down with her. (This happened while she was purifying herself from her uncleanness.<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a>) Afterward, she returned to her house.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The woman became pregnant, and she sent a message to David: “I am pregnant.” <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At this David sent a message to Joʹab: “Send to me U·riʹah the Hitʹtite.” So Joʹab sent U·riʹah to David. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When U·riʹah came to him, David asked him how Joʹab was getting along, how the troops were getting along, and how the war was going. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> David then said to U·riʹah: “Go down to your house and relax.”<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> When U·riʹah left the king’s house, the king’s courtesy gift<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> was sent after him. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> However, U·riʹah slept at the entrance of the king’s house with all the other servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his own house. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So David was told: “U·riʹah did not go down to his own house.” At that David said to U·riʹah: “Have you not just returned from a journey? Why did you not go down to your own house?” <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> U·riʹah replied to David: “The Ark and Israel and Judah are dwelling in temporary shelters, and my lord Joʹab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field. So should I go into my own house to eat and drink and lie down with my wife? As surely as you live and are alive,<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> I will not do this thing!”</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then David said to U·riʹah: “Stay here also today, and tomorrow I will send you away.” So U·riʹah stayed in Jerusalem on that day and the following day. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David then sent for him to come and eat and drink with him, and he got him drunk. But in the evening, he went out to sleep on his bed with the servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his house. <span id="pos39911"></span><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> In the morning David wrote a letter to Joʹab and sent it by the hand of U·riʹah. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He wrote in the letter: “Put U·riʹah in the front lines where the fighting is fiercest. Then retreat from behind him, so that he will be struck down and die.”</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="page455" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="455" data-before-text="455"></span><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Joʹab had been carefully watching the city, and he stationed U·riʹah where he knew there were mighty warriors. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When the men of the city came out and fought against Joʹab, some of David’s servants fell, and U·riʹah the Hitʹtite was among those who died. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Joʹab now reported to David all the news about the war. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He instructed the messenger: “When you finish speaking to the king about all the news of the war, <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> the king may become angry and say to you, ‘Why did you have to go so near to the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the top of the wall? <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Who struck down A·bimʹe·lech the son of Je·rubʹbe·sheth? Was it not a woman who threw an upper millstone on him from the top of the wall, causing his death at Theʹbez? Why did you have to go so close to the wall?’ Then say, ‘Your servant U·riʹah the Hitʹtite also died.’”</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So the messenger went and told David everything that Joʹab had sent him to tell. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then the messenger told David: “Their men overpowered us, and they came out against us in the field; but we drove them back to the entrance of the city gate. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And the archers were shooting at your servants from the top of the wall, and some of the servants of the king died; your servant U·riʹah the Hitʹtite also died.” <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At that David said to the messenger: “Say this to Joʹab: ‘Do not let this matter trouble you, for the sword devours one as well as another. Intensify your battle against the city and conquer it.’ And encourage him.”</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="pos41697"></span><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When U·riʹah’s wife heard that her husband U·riʹah had died, she began to mourn her husband. <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As soon as the mourning period was over, David sent for her and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But what David had done was very displeasing to<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:1</span></a> That is, in the spring.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:2</span></a> Or “Late one afternoon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:2</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:4</span></a> Possibly her menstrual uncleanness.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:8</span></a> Lit., “wash your feet.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:8</span></a> Or “the king’s portion,” that is, the portion sent by the host to the honored guest.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:11</span></a> Or “and as your soul is living.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061114-split11.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 11:27</span></a> Lit., “was bad in the eyes of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
