<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_8.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos29471"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Some time later, David defeated the Phi·lisʹtines and subdued them, and David took Methʹeg-amʹmah out of the hands of the Phi·lisʹtines.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He defeated the Moʹab·ites and made them lie down on the ground and measured them with a line. He measured out two lines to be put to death, and one full line to be kept alive. And the Moʹab·ites became David’s servants and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> David defeated Had·ad·eʹzer the son of Reʹhob the king of Zoʹbah as he was on his way to restore his authority at the Eu·phraʹtes River. <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> David captured 1,700 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers from him. Then David hamstrung all but 100 of the chariot horses.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When the Syrians of Damascus came to help King Had·ad·eʹzer of Zoʹbah, David struck down 22,000 of the Syrians. <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> David then established garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold from the servants of Had·ad·eʹzer and brought them to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> From Beʹtah and Be·roʹthai, cities of Had·ad·eʹzer, King David took a great quantity of copper.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now King Toʹi of Haʹmath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Had·ad·eʹzer. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Toʹi sent his son Joʹram to King David to ask about his welfare and to congratulate him because he had fought <span id="page452" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="452" data-before-text="452"></span>and defeated Had·ad·eʹzer (for Had·ad·eʹzer had often fought against Toʹi), and he brought articles of silver, gold, and copper. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> King David sanctified these to Jehovah, along with the silver and the gold that he had sanctified from all the nations that he had subdued: <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> from Syria and Moʹab, from the Amʹmon·ites, the Phi·lisʹtines, the A·malʹek·ites, and from the spoil of Had·ad·eʹzer the son of Reʹhob the king of Zoʹbah. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David also made a name for himself when he came back from striking down 18,000 Eʹdom·ites in the Valley of Salt. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He established garrisons in Eʹdom. In all Eʹdom he established garrisons, and all the Eʹdom·ites became David’s servants. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> wherever he went.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos31592"></span><span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> David kept reigning over all Israel, and David was administering justice and righteousness for all his people. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah was over the army, and Je·hoshʹa·phat the son of A·hiʹlud was recorder. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Zaʹdok the son of A·hiʹtub and A·himʹe·lech the son of A·biʹa·thar were priests, and Se·raiʹah was secretary. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da was over the Cherʹe·thites and the Pelʹe·thites. And David’s sons became chief ministers.<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p305" data-pid="305"><a href="1001061114-split8.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:6</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061114-split8.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:14</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061114-split8.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:18</span></a> Lit., “became priests.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
