<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_19.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos80324"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>It was reported to Joʹab: “The king is weeping and mourning for Abʹsa·lom.” <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So the victory<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> on that day was turned into mourning for all the people, because they heard that the king was grieving over his son. <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The people quietly returned to the city that day like people who are ashamed because they fled in the battle. <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The king covered his face and kept crying out with a loud voice: “My son Abʹsa·lom! Abʹsa·lom my son, my son!”</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="pos80773"></span><span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Joʹab went in to the king at the house and said: “Today you have put to shame all your servants who this day saved your life<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> and the lives<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> of your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your concubines. <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You love those who hate you and hate those who love you, <span id="page468" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="468" data-before-text="468"></span>for you have made it clear today that your chiefs and servants mean nothing to you, because I am sure that if only Abʹsa·lom were alive today and the rest of us were dead, it would be all right with you. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now get up, go out and reassure<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> your servants, because by Jehovah I swear that if you do not go out, not a man will remain with you tonight. This will be worse for you than all the injury that has come upon you from your youth until now.” <span id="pos81502"></span><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So the king rose up and sat in the city gate, and all the people were informed: “Now the king is sitting in the gate.” Then all the people came before the king.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb">But Israel had fled, each to his home. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> All the people in all the tribes of Israel were disputing, saying: “The king saved us from our enemies, and he rescued us from the Phi·lisʹtines; but now he has fled the land because of Abʹsa·lom. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And Abʹsa·lom, whom we anointed over us, has died in the battle. So now, why are you doing nothing to bring the king back?”</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> King David sent this message to Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar the priests: “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why should you be the last ones to bring the king back to his house, when the word of all Israel has come to the king at his house? <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> You are my brothers; you are my own bone and flesh.<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> Why should you be the last ones to bring the king back?’ <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you should say to A·maʹsa, ‘Are you not my own bone and flesh? So may God do to me and add to it if you will not become my army chief from now on instead of Joʹab.’”</p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So he won over<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> the hearts of all the men of Judah as one man, and they sent word to the king: “Come back, you and all your servants.”</p>
<p id="p154" data-pid="154" class="p154 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The king started back and reached the Jordan, and the people of Judah came to Gilʹgal to meet the king and to escort him across the Jordan. <span id="pos82875"></span><span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then Shimʹe·i the son of Geʹra, the Benʹja·min·ite from Ba·huʹrim, hurried down with the men of Judah to meet King David, <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and there were 1,000 men from Benjamin with him. Also Ziʹba, the attendant of the house of Saul, with his 15 sons and 20 servants, rushed down to the Jordan ahead of the king. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> crossed the ford to bring the king’s household across and to do whatever he desired. But Shimʹe·i the son of Geʹra fell down before the king when he was about to cross the Jordan. <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He said to the king: “Do not let my lord hold me guilty, and do not remember the wrong your servant did on the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem. May the king not take it to heart, <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> for your servant well knows that I have sinned; so today I have been the first of all the house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king.”</p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> At once A·bishʹai the son of Ze·ruʹiah said: “Should not Shimʹe·i be put to death for this, because he cursed the anointed of Jehovah?” <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But David said: “What does this have to do with you, you sons of Ze·ruʹiah, that you should act against me today? Should anyone be put to death today in Israel? For do I not know that today I am king over Israel?” <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then the king said to Shimʹe·i: “You will not die.” And the king gave him his oath.</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="pos84195"></span><span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Me·phibʹo·sheth, the grandson of Saul, also came down to <span id="page469" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="469" data-before-text="469"></span>meet the king. He had not cared for his feet or trimmed his mustache or washed his garments from the day the king left until the day he returned in peace. <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When he came to<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him: “Why did you not go with me, Me·phibʹo·sheth?” <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> To this he said: “My lord the king, my servant tricked me. For your servant had said, ‘Let me get my donkey saddled so that I may ride on it and go with the king,’ for your servant is crippled. <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But he slandered your servant to my lord the king. However, my lord the king is like an angel of the true God, so do whatever seems good to you. <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> All the household of my father could have been doomed to death by my lord the king, and yet you placed your servant among those eating at your table. So what right do I have to cry out further to the king?”</p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> However, the king said to him: “Why keep on speaking like this? I have decided that you and Ziʹba should share the field.” <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> At this Me·phibʹo·sheth said to the king: “Let him take it all, now that my lord the king has come to his house in peace.”</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="pos85371"></span><span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then Bar·zilʹlai the Gilʹe·ad·ite came down from Ro·geʹlim to the Jordan to escort the king to the Jordan. <span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Bar·zilʹlai was very old, 80 years of age, and he supplied the king with food while he was staying in Ma·ha·naʹim, for he was a very wealthy man. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So the king said to Bar·zilʹlai: “Cross over with me, and I will supply you with food in Jerusalem.” <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But Bar·zilʹlai said to the king: “How many days<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> of my life are left that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem? <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> I am 80 years old today. Can I discern between good and bad? Can I, your servant, taste what I eat and drink? Can I still listen to the voice of male and female singers? So why should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king? <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> It is enough that your servant could bring the king to the Jordan. Why should the king repay me with this reward? <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Let your servant return, please, and let me die in my city near the burial place of my father and my mother. But here is your servant Chimʹham. Let him cross over with my lord the king, and you may do for him what seems good to you.”</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So the king said: “Chimʹham will go across with me, and I will do for him what seems good to you; whatever you ask of me I will do for you.” <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> All the people now began to cross the Jordan, and when the king crossed, the king kissed Bar·zilʹlai and blessed him; and Bar·zilʹlai returned home. <span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> When the king went across to Gilʹgal, Chimʹham crossed with him. All the people of Judah and half the people of Israel brought the king across.</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="pos86942"></span><span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Then all the men of Israel approached the king and said to him: “Why did our brothers the men of Judah steal you away and bring the king and his household over the Jordan, along with all of David’s men?” <span id="chapter19_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel: “Because the king is related to us. Why are you angry over this? Have we eaten anything at the king’s expense, or has a gift been given to us?”</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> However, the men of Israel answered the men of Judah: “We have ten parts in the king, so that we have a greater claim in David than you have. Why, then, have you treated us with contempt? Should we not have been <span id="page470" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="470" data-before-text="470"></span>first to bring our king back?” But the word of the men of Judah prevailed over<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> that of the men of Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:2</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:5</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:5</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:7</span></a> Lit., “speak to the heart of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:12</span></a> Or “my blood relatives.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:14</span></a> Lit., “he bent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:18</span></a> Or possibly, “They.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:25</span></a> Or possibly, “from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:34</span></a> Lit., “days of years.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061114-split19.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 19:43</span></a> Or “was more severe than.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
