<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_23.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p210" data-pid="210" class="p210 sb"><span id="pos89933"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>When David had grown old and was near the end of his life,<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> he made his son Solʹo·mon king over Israel. <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He then gathered all the princes of Israel, the priests, and the Levites. <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The Levites who were 30 years old and up were numbered; their number, their head count man by man, was 38,000. <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Of these, 24,000 <span id="page596" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="596" data-before-text="596"></span>served as supervisors over the work of Jehovah’s house, and there were 6,000 officers and judges, <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and there were 4,000 gatekeepers, and 4,000 gave praise to Jehovah on the instruments about which David said, “I made them for giving praise.”</p>
<p id="p211" data-pid="211" class="p211 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then David organized<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> them into divisions according to the sons of Leʹvi: Gerʹshon, Koʹhath, and Me·rarʹi. <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Of the Gerʹshon·ites were Laʹdan and Shimʹe·i. <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The sons of Laʹdan were Je·hiʹel the headman, Zeʹtham, and Joel, three. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The sons of Shimʹe·i were She·loʹmoth, Haʹzi·el, and Haʹran, three. These were the heads of the paternal houses for Laʹdan. <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the sons of Shimʹe·i were Jaʹhath, Ziʹna, Jeʹush, and Be·riʹah. These four were the sons of Shimʹe·i. <span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jaʹhath was the head and Ziʹzah, the second. But since Jeʹush and Be·riʹah did not have many sons, they were counted as one paternal house with one area of responsibility.</p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The sons of Koʹhath were Amʹram, Izʹhar, Hebʹron, and Uzʹzi·el, four. <span id="pos91250"></span><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The sons of Amʹram were Aaron and Moses. But Aaron was permanently set apart to sanctify the Most Holy, he and his sons, to offer sacrifices before Jehovah, to minister to him, and to pronounce blessings in his name always. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> As for Moses the man of the true God, his sons were named among the tribe of the Levites. <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The sons of Moses were Gerʹshom and E·li·eʹzer. <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Of the sons of Gerʹshom, Shebʹu·el was the head. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Of the descendants<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> of E·li·eʹzer, Re·ha·biʹah was the head; E·li·eʹzer did not have other sons, but the sons of Re·ha·biʹah were very many. <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Of the sons of Izʹhar, She·loʹmith was the headman. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Hebʹron were Je·riʹah the head, Am·a·riʹah the second, Ja·ha·ziʹel the third, and Jek·a·meʹam the fourth. <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The sons of Uzʹzi·el were Miʹcah the head and Is·shiʹah the second.</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi were Mahʹli and Muʹshi. The sons of Mahʹli were El·e·aʹzar and Kish. <span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> El·e·aʹzar died, but he had no sons, only daughters. So the sons of Kish, their relatives,<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> took them as wives. <span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The sons of Muʹshi were Mahʹli, Eʹder, and Jerʹe·moth, three.</p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> These were the sons of Leʹvi according to their paternal houses, the heads of the paternal houses, by those registered who were counted and listed by their names and who carried out the work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from 20 years old and up. <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For David had said: “Jehovah the God of Israel has given rest to his people, and he will reside in Jerusalem forever. <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Also the Levites will not have to carry the tabernacle or any of its equipment for its service.” <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For according to the last instructions of David, the Levites from 20 years old and up were numbered. <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Their function was to assist the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah, to be in charge of the courtyards, the dining rooms, the purification of every holy thing, and any work needed for the service of the house of the true God. <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> They assisted with the layer bread,<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> the fine flour for the grain offering, the wafers of unleavened bread, the griddle cakes, the mixed dough, and all measures of quantity and size. <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> They were to stand morning <span id="page597" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="597" data-before-text="597"></span>by morning to thank and praise Jehovah and likewise in the evening. <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> They assisted whenever the burnt sacrifices were offered to Jehovah on the Sabbaths, the new moons, and during the festival seasons, according to the number required by the rules concerning them, doing so regularly before Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> They also took care of their responsibilities toward the tent of meeting, toward the holy place, and toward their brothers the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061117-split23.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 23:1</span></a> Lit., “old and full of days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061117-split23.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 23:6</span></a> Or “divided.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061117-split23.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 23:17</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061117-split23.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 23:22</span></a> Lit., “brothers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061117-split23.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 23:29</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
