<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 41</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">41</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_41.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p1097" data-pid="1097" class="p1097 sb"><span id="page1097" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1097" data-before-text="1097"></span><span id="pos177319"></span><span id="chapter41"></span><span id="chapter41_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>41</strong> </span>In the seventh month Ishʹma·el son of Neth·a·niʹah son of E·lishʹa·ma, who was of the royal line<span id="footnotesource363"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote363">*</a> and one of the principal men of the king, came with ten other men to Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam at Mizʹpah. As they were eating a meal together in Mizʹpah, <span id="chapter41_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah and the ten men who were with him rose up and struck down Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan with the sword. So he put to death the one whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land. <span id="chapter41_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Ishʹma·el also struck down all the Jews who were with Ged·a·liʹah in Mizʹpah, as well as the Chal·deʹan soldiers who were there.</p>
<p id="p1098" data-pid="1098" class="p1098 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> On the second day after Ged·a·liʹah had been put to death, before anyone knew about it, <span id="chapter41_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> there came 80 men from Sheʹchem, from Shiʹloh, and from Sa·marʹi·a. Their beards were shaved off, their garments were ripped apart, they had cut themselves, and they had grain offerings and frankincense in their hand to bring to the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter41_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah went out from Mizʹpah to meet them, weeping as he walked along. When he encountered them, he said to them: “Come to Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam.” <span id="chapter41_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But when they came into the city, Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah and his men slaughtered them and threw them into the cistern.</p>
<p id="p1099" data-pid="1099" class="p1099 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But there were ten men among them who said to Ishʹma·el: “Do not put us to death, for we have hidden stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey in the field.” So he refrained from putting them to death along with their brothers. <span id="chapter41_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now Ishʹma·el threw all the carcasses of the men he had killed into a great cistern, the one that King Aʹsa had made because of King Baʹa·sha of Israel. This was the cistern that Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah filled with the slain men.</p>
<p id="p1100" data-pid="1100" class="p1100 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Ishʹma·el took captive all the rest of the people in Mizʹpah, including the daughters of the king and all the people left in Mizʹpah, whom Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard had put in the custody of Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam. Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah took them captive and went off to cross over to the Amʹmon·ites.</p>
<p id="p1101" data-pid="1101" class="p1101 sb"><span id="pos179461"></span><span id="chapter41_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs who were with him heard about all the evil that Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah had done, <span id="chapter41_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> they took all the men and went off to fight against Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah, and they found him by the great waters<span id="footnotesource364"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote364">*</a> in Gibʹe·on.</p>
<p id="p1102" data-pid="1102" class="p1102 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> All the people who were with Ishʹma·el rejoiced when they saw Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs with him. <span id="chapter41_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then all the people whom Ishʹma·el had taken captive from Mizʹpah turned around and went back with Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah. <span id="chapter41_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah and eight of his men escaped from Jo·haʹnan and went to the Amʹmon·ites.</p>
<p id="p1103" data-pid="1103" class="p1103 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs who were with him took with them the rest of the people from Mizʹpah, those whom they had rescued from Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah after he had struck down Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam. They brought the men, the soldiers, the women, the children, and the court officials back from <span id="page1098" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1098" data-before-text="1098"></span>Gibʹe·on. <span id="chapter41_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So they went and stayed in the lodging place of Chimʹham next to Bethʹle·hem, intending to go on into Egypt <span id="chapter41_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> because of the Chal·deʹans. For they had become afraid of them, since Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah had struck down Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam, whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote363"><p id="p1940" data-pid="1940"><a href="1001061128-split41.xhtml#footnotesource363">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 41:1</span></a> Lit., “the seed of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote364"><p id="p1941" data-pid="1941"><a href="1001061128-split41.xhtml#footnotesource364">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 41:12</span></a> Or possibly, “great pool.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
