<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 43</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">43</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_43.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p521" data-pid="521" class="p521 sb"><span id="pos185939"></span><span id="chapter43"></span><span id="chapter43_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>43</strong> </span>Then he led me to the gate that is facing east. <span id="chapter43_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> There I saw the glory of the God of Israel coming from the east, and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters; and the earth was illuminated by his glory. <span id="chapter43_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> What I saw was like the vision I had seen when I<span id="footnotesource339"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote339">*</a> came to bring the city to ruin, and it appeared to be like what I had seen near the river Cheʹbar; and I fell with my face to the ground.</p>
<p id="p522" data-pid="522" class="p522 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then the glory of Jehovah entered the temple<span id="footnotesource340"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote340">*</a> through the gate facing the east. <span id="chapter43_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> A spirit then raised me up and brought me into the inner courtyard, and I saw that the temple had become full of the glory of Jehovah. <span id="chapter43_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then I heard someone speaking to me out of the temple, and the man came and stood beside me. <span id="chapter43_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He said to me:</p>
<p id="p523" data-pid="523" class="p523 sb">“Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place for the soles of my feet, where I will dwell among the people of Israel forever. The house of Israel will no longer defile my holy name, they and their kings, by their spiritual prostitution and by the carcasses of their kings at their death. <span id="chapter43_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> By putting their threshold next to my threshold and their doorpost <span id="page1196" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1196" data-before-text="1196"></span>beside my doorpost, with only a wall between me and them, they defiled my holy name by the detestable things they did, so I exterminated them in my anger. <span id="chapter43_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now let them put their spiritual prostitution and the carcasses of their kings far away from me, and I will dwell among them forever.</p>
<p id="p524" data-pid="524" class="p524 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “As for you, son of man, describe the temple to the house of Israel, so that they will feel ashamed because of their errors, and they should study its plan.<span id="footnotesource341"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote341">*</a> <span id="chapter43_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If they feel ashamed of all they have done, you should make known to them the ground plan of the temple, its arrangement, its exits, and its entrances. Show them all its ground plans and its statutes, its ground plans and its laws, and write them down before their eyes, so that they may observe all its ground plan and carry out its statutes. <span id="chapter43_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> This is the law of the temple. The entire territory all around the top of the mountain is most holy. Look! This is the law of the temple.</p>
<p id="p525" data-pid="525" class="p525 sb"><span id="pos188037"></span><span id="chapter43_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “These are the measurements of the altar in cubits (to each cubit a handbreadth was added).<span id="footnotesource342"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote342">*</a> Its base is a cubit, and it is a cubit wide. It has a border all around the edge that is one span<span id="footnotesource343"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote343">*</a> in width. This is the base of the altar. <span id="chapter43_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> From the base on the floor to the lower surrounding ledge is two cubits, and its width is one cubit. From the small surrounding ledge to the big surrounding ledge is four cubits, and its width is a cubit. <span id="chapter43_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The altar hearth is four cubits high, and projecting up from the altar hearth are the four horns. <span id="chapter43_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The altar hearth is square, 12 cubits long and 12 cubits wide. <span id="chapter43_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The four sides of the surrounding ledge are 14 cubits long and 14 cubits wide; and the surrounding border is half a cubit, and its base is a cubit on all sides.</p>
<p id="p526" data-pid="526" class="p526 sb">“And its steps are facing east.”</p>
<p id="p527" data-pid="527" class="p527 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He then said to me, “Son of man, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘These are the directions to follow when the altar is made, so that whole burnt offerings may be offered and blood may be sprinkled on it.’</p>
<p id="p528" data-pid="528" class="p528 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘You are to give a young bull of the herd as a sin offering to the Levitical priests of the offspring of Zaʹdok, who approach me to minister to me,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <span id="chapter43_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> ‘You should take some of its blood and put it on the four horns of the altar, on the four corners of the surrounding ledge, and on the border all around, in order to purify it from sin and to make atonement for it. <span id="chapter43_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then take the young bull, the sin offering, in order to burn it in the appointed place of the temple, outside the sanctuary. <span id="chapter43_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> On the second day you will offer a sound male goat as a sin offering; and they will purify the altar from sin just as they purified it from sin with the young bull.’</p>
<p id="p529" data-pid="529" class="p529 sb"><span id="chapter43_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘When you finish purifying it from sin, you will offer a sound young bull of the herd and a sound ram from the flock. <span id="chapter43_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You are to present them to Jehovah, and the priests must throw salt on them and offer them up as a whole burnt offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter43_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For seven days you will offer a male goat as a daily sin offering, as well as a young bull of the herd and a ram of the flock; you <span id="page1197" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1197" data-before-text="1197"></span>will offer unblemished<span id="footnotesource344"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote344">*</a> animals. <span id="chapter43_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For seven days they are to make atonement for the altar, and they must cleanse it and install it. <span id="chapter43_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When the days are completed, on the eighth day and thereafter, the priests will offer your<span id="footnotesource345"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote345">*</a> whole burnt offerings and communion sacrifices on the altar; and I will find pleasure in you,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote339"><p id="p929" data-pid="929"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource339">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:3</span></a> Or possibly, “he.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote340"><p id="p930" data-pid="930"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource340">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:4</span></a> Lit., “house.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote341"><p id="p931" data-pid="931"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource341">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:10</span></a> Lit., “measure the pattern.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote342"><p id="p932" data-pid="932"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource342">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:13</span></a> This refers to long cubits. See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote343"><p id="p933" data-pid="933"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource343">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:13</span></a> That is, the span of the hand, about 22.2 cm (8.75 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote344"><p id="p934" data-pid="934"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource344">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:25</span></a> Or “perfect.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote345"><p id="p935" data-pid="935"><a href="1001061130-split43.xhtml#footnotesource345">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 43:27</span></a> That is, those of the people.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
