<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_7.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos16060"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>Therefore, since we have these promises, beloved ones, let us cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos16224"></span><span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Make room for us in your hearts. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, <span id="page1550" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1550" data-before-text="1550"></span>we have taken advantage of no one. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I do not say this to condemn you. For I have said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I have great freeness of speech toward you. I have great boasting in regard to you. I am filled with comfort; I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos16639"></span><span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> In fact, when we arrived in Mac·e·doʹni·a, our bodies<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> got no relief, but we continued to be afflicted in every way—there were fights on the outside, fears within. <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But God, who comforts those who are downhearted, comforted us by the presence of Titus; <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and not only by his presence but also by the comfort he received because of you, as he reported back to us about your longing for me, your deep sorrow, and your earnest concern<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> for me; so I rejoiced even more.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos17113"></span><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For even if I saddened you by my letter, I do not regret it. Even if I did at first regret it (seeing that the letter saddened you, though only for a little while), <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> now I rejoice, not because you were just saddened, but because you were saddened into repenting. For you were saddened in a godly way, so that you suffered no harm because of us. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For sadness in a godly way produces repentance leading to salvation, leaving no regret; but the sadness of the world produces death. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For see what a great earnestness your being saddened in a godly way produced in you, yes, clearing of yourselves, yes, indignation, yes, fear, yes, earnest desire, yes, zeal, yes, righting of the wrong! In every respect you demonstrated yourselves to be pure<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> in this matter. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Although I wrote to you, I did not do it for the one who did the wrong, nor for the one who was wronged, but so that your earnestness for us might be made evident among you in the sight of God. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> That is why we have been comforted.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb">But in addition to our comfort, we rejoiced even more over the joy of Titus, because all of you refreshed his spirit. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For if I have boasted to him about you, I have not been put to shame; but just as all the things we told you were true, so also our boasting to Titus has proved true. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Also, his tender affections toward you are greater as he remembers the obedience of all of you, how you received him with fear and trembling. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> I rejoice that in every way I may have confidence in<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p119" data-pid="119"><a href="1001061151-split7.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 7:5</span></a> Lit., “flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p120" data-pid="120"><a href="1001061151-split7.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 7:7</span></a> Lit., “your zeal.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p121" data-pid="121"><a href="1001061151-split7.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 7:11</span></a> Or “chaste; innocent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p122" data-pid="122"><a href="1001061151-split7.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 7:16</span></a> Or possibly, “I may be of good courage because of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
