<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_8.xhtml">12 - 59</a></p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos39569"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Jesus spoke again to them, saying: “I am the light of the world. Whoever <span id="page1438" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1438" data-before-text="1438"></span>follows me will by no means walk in darkness, but will possess the light of life.” <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So the Pharisees said to him: “You bear witness about yourself; your witness is not true.” <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to them: “Even if I do bear witness about myself, my witness is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I came from and where I am going. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You judge according to the flesh;<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> I do not judge any man at all. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And yet even if I do judge, my judgment is truthful, because I am not alone, but the Father who sent me is with me. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Also, in your own Law it is written: ‘The witness of two men is true.’ <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I am one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.” <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then they said to him: “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered: “You know neither me nor my Father. If you did know me, you would know my Father also.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He spoke these words in the treasury as he was teaching in the temple. But no one seized him, for his hour had not yet come.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So he said to them again: “I am going away, and you will look for me, and yet you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.” <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The Jews then began to say: “He will not kill himself, will he? Because he says, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come.’” <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He went on to say to them: “You are from the realms below; I am from the realms above. You are from this world; I am not from this world. <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> That is why I said to you: You will die in your sins. For if you do not believe that I am the one, you will die in your sins.” <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So they began to say to him: “Who are you?” Jesus replied to them: “Why am I even speaking to you at all? <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I have many things to speak concerning you and to pass judgment on. As a matter of fact, the One who sent me is true, and the very things I heard from him I am speaking in the world.” <span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> They did not grasp that he was talking to them about the Father. <span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Jesus then said: “After you have lifted up the Son of man, then you will know that I am he and that I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me, I speak these things. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And the One who sent me is with me; he did not abandon me to myself, because I always do the things pleasing to him.” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> As he was saying these things, many put faith in him.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos42050"></span><span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then Jesus went on to say to the Jews who had believed him: “If you remain in my word, you are really my disciples, <span id="pos42173"></span><span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> They replied to him: “We are Abraham’s offspring and never have been slaves to anyone. How is it you say, ‘You will become free’?” <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Jesus answered them: “Most truly I say to you, every doer of sin is a slave of sin. <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Moreover, the slave does not remain in the household forever; the son remains forever. <span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> So if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free. <span id="chapter8_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> I know that you are Abraham’s offspring. But you are seeking to kill me, because my word makes no progress among you. <span id="chapter8_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> I speak the things I have seen while with my Father, but you do the things you have heard from your father.” <span id="chapter8_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> In answer they said to him: “Our father is Abraham.” Jesus said to them: “If you were Abraham’s children, you would be doing the works of Abraham. <span id="chapter8_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But now <span id="page1439" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1439" data-before-text="1439"></span>you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do this. <span id="chapter8_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> You are doing the works of your father.” They said to him: “We were not born from immorality;<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> we have one Father, God.”</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="pos43282"></span><span id="chapter8_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I have not come of my own initiative, but that One sent me. <span id="chapter8_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Why do you not understand what I am saying? Because you cannot listen to my word. <span id="chapter8_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> You are from your father the Devil, and you wish to do the desires of your father. That one was a murderer when he began,<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> and he did not stand fast in the truth, because truth is not in him. When he speaks the lie, he speaks according to his own disposition, because he is a liar and the father of the lie. <span id="chapter8_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Because I, on the other hand, tell you the truth, you do not believe me. <span id="chapter8_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Who of you convicts me of sin? If I speak truth, why is it that you do not believe me? <span id="chapter8_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> The one who is from God listens to the sayings of God. This is why you do not listen, because you are not from God.”</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos44158"></span><span id="chapter8_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> In answer the Jews said to him: “Are we not right in saying, ‘You are a Sa·marʹi·tan and have a demon’?” <span id="chapter8_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. <span id="chapter8_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> But I am not seeking glory for myself; there is One who is seeking and judging. <span id="chapter8_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, if anyone observes my word, he will never see death at all.” <span id="chapter8_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> The Jews said to him: “Now we do know that you have a demon. Abraham died, also the prophets, but you say, ‘If anyone observes my word, he will never taste death at all.’ <span id="chapter8_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> You are not greater than our father Abraham, who died, are you? The prophets also died. Who do you claim to be?” <span id="chapter8_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, the one who you say is your God. <span id="chapter8_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> Yet you have not known him, but I know him. And if I said I do not know him, I would be like you, a liar. But I do know him and am observing his word. <span id="chapter8_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Abraham your father rejoiced greatly at the prospect of seeing my day, and he saw it and rejoiced.” <span id="chapter8_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Then the Jews said to him: “You are not yet 50 years old, and still you have seen Abraham?” <span id="chapter8_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to you, before Abraham came into existence, I have been.” <span id="chapter8_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid and went out of the temple.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p191" data-pid="191"><a href="1001061147-split8.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 8:15</span></a> Or “by human standards.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p192" data-pid="192"><a href="1001061147-split8.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 8:41</span></a> Or “sexual immorality.” Greek, <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p193" data-pid="193"><a href="1001061147-split8.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 8:44</span></a> Or “from the beginning.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
