<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_14.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos72586"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>“Do not let your hearts be troubled. Exercise faith in God; exercise faith also in me. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In the house of my Father are <span id="page1448" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1448" data-before-text="1448"></span>many dwelling places.<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> Otherwise, I would have told you, for I am going my way to prepare a place for you. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will receive you home to myself, so that where I am you also may be. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And where I am going, you know the way.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Thomas said to him: “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?”</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos73112"></span><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> If you men had known me, you would have known my Father also; from this moment on you know him and have seen him.”</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Philip said to him: “Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.”</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Even after I have been with you men for such a long time, Philip, have you not come to know me? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father also. How is it you say, ‘Show us the Father’? <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Do you not believe that I am in union with the Father and the Father is in union with me? The things I say to you I do not speak of my own originality, but the Father who remains in union with me is doing his works. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Believe me that I am in union with the Father and the Father is in union with me; otherwise, believe because of the works themselves. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, whoever exercises faith in me will also do the works that I do; and he will do works greater than these, because I am going my way to the Father. <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Also, whatever you ask in my name, I will do this, so that the Father may be glorified in connection with the Son. <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> If you ask anything in my name, I will do it.</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos74354"></span><span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “If you love me, you will observe my commandments. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And I will ask the Father and he will give you another helper<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> to be with you forever, <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the spirit of the truth, which the world cannot receive, because it neither sees it nor knows it. You know it, because it remains with you and is in you. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I will not leave you bereaved.<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> I am coming to you. <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In a little while the world will see me no more, but you will see me, because I live and you will live. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> In that day you will know that I am in union with my Father and you are in union with me and I am in union with you. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me. In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.”</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Judas, not Is·carʹi·ot, said to him: “Lord, what has happened that you intend to show yourself clearly to us and not to the world?”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to him: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our dwelling<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> with him. <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Whoever does not love me does not observe my words. The word that you are hearing is not mine, but belongs to the Father who sent me.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “I have spoken these things to you while I am still with you. <span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But the helper, the holy spirit, which the Father will send in my name, that one will teach you all things and bring back to your minds all the things I told you. <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> I leave you peace; I <span id="page1449" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1449" data-before-text="1449"></span>give you my peace. I do not give it to you the way that the world gives it. Do not let your hearts be troubled nor let them shrink out of fear. <span id="pos76028"></span><span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> You heard that I said to you, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’ If you loved me, you would rejoice that I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I am. <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So now I have told you before it occurs, so that you may believe when it does occur. <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> I will not speak with you much more, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has no hold on me.<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But for the world to know that I love the Father, I am doing just as the Father has commanded me to do. Get up, let us go from here.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p226" data-pid="226"><a href="1001061147-split14.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 14:2</span></a> Or “many abodes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p227" data-pid="227"><a href="1001061147-split14.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 14:16</span></a> Or “comforter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p228" data-pid="228"><a href="1001061147-split14.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 14:18</span></a> Or “as orphans.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p229" data-pid="229"><a href="1001061147-split14.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 14:23</span></a> Or “abode.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061147-split14.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 14:30</span></a> Or “has no power over me.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
