<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061162"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Hebrews</a>  <a href="biblechapternav58.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav58_4.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos7143"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Therefore, since a promise of entering into his rest remains, let us be on guard<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> for fear someone among you seems to fall short of it. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For we have also had the good news declared to us, just as they had; but the word that they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For we who have exercised faith do enter into the rest, just as he has said: “So I swore in my anger, ‘They will not enter into my rest,’” although his works were finished from the founding of the world. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For in one place he has said of the seventh day as follows: “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works,” <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and here again he says: “They will not enter into my rest.”</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Therefore, since it remains for some to enter into it, and those to whom the good news was first declared did not enter in because of disobedience, <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> he again marks off a certain day by saying long afterward in David’s psalm, “Today”; just as it has been said above, “Today if you listen to his voice, do not harden your hearts.” <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For if Joshua had led them into a place of rest, God would not afterward have spoken of another day. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So there remains a sabbath-rest for the people of God. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For the man who has entered into God’s rest has also rested from his own works, just as God did from his own.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos8485"></span><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Let us therefore do our utmost to enter into that rest, so that no one may fall into the same pattern of disobedience. <span id="pos8612"></span><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For the word of God is alive and exerts power and <span id="page1604" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1604" data-before-text="1604"></span>is sharper than any two-edged sword and pierces even to the dividing of soul<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> and spirit,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> and of joints from the marrow, and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And there is not a creation that is hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and openly exposed to the eyes of the one to whom we must give an account.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos9027"></span><span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold on to our public declaration of him. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tested in all respects as we have, but without sin. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Let us, then, approach the throne of undeserved kindness with freeness of speech, so that we may receive mercy and find undeserved kindness to help us at the right time.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p99" data-pid="99"><a href="1001061162-split4.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 4:1</span></a> Lit., “be in fear.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p100" data-pid="100"><a href="1001061162-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 4:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p101" data-pid="101"><a href="1001061162-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 4:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos107525">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
