<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_7.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos16403"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is better for a man not to touch<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> a woman; <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> but because of the prevalence of sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> let each man have his own wife and each woman have her own husband. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Let the husband give to his wife her due, and let the wife also do likewise to her husband. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The wife does not have authority over her own body, but her husband does; likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but his wife does. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Do not deprive each other except by mutual consent for an appointed time, so that you may devote time to prayer and may come together again, in order that Satan may not keep tempting you for your lack of self-control. <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, I say this by way of concession, not as a command. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But I wish all men were as I am. Nevertheless, each one has his own gift from God, one in this way, another in that way.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now I say to those who are unmarried and to the widows that it is better for them if they remain <span id="page1532" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1532" data-before-text="1532"></span>as I am. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to be inflamed with passion.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> To the married people I give instructions, not I but the Lord, that a wife should not separate from her husband. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But if she does separate, let her remain unmarried or else be reconciled with her husband; and a husband should not leave his wife.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But to the others I say, yes, I, not the Lord: If any brother has an unbelieving wife and she is agreeable to staying with him, let him not leave her; <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and if a woman has an unbelieving husband and he is agreeable to staying with her, let her not leave her husband. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For the unbelieving husband is sanctified in relation to his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in relation to the brother; otherwise, your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But if the unbelieving one chooses to depart,<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> let him depart; a brother or a sister is not bound under such circumstances, but God has called you to peace. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For wife, how do you know whether you will save your husband? Or, husband, how do you know whether you will save your wife?</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos18576"></span><span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Nevertheless, just as Jehovah<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> has given each one a portion, let each one so walk as God has called him. And so I give this directive in all the congregations. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Was any man already circumcised when he was called? Let him not undo his circumcision. Has any man been called while uncircumcised? Let him not get circumcised. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Circumcision means nothing, and uncircumcision means nothing; what means something is the observing of God’s commandments. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> In whatever state each one was called, let him remain in it. <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Were you called when a slave? Do not let it concern you; but if you can become free, then seize the opportunity. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For anyone who was called in the Lord when a slave is the Lord’s freedman; likewise anyone who was called when a freeman is a slave of Christ. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You were bought with a price; stop becoming slaves of men. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In whatever state each one was called, brothers, let him remain in it before God.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos19543"></span><span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now concerning virgins,<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> I have no command from the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who had mercy shown him by the Lord to be faithful. <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Therefore, I think that it is best for a man to continue as he is in view of the present difficulty. <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Are you bound to a wife? Stop seeking a release. Are you freed from a wife? Stop seeking a wife. <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But even if you did marry, you would commit no sin. And if a virgin married, such a person would commit no sin. However, those who do will have tribulation in their flesh. But I am trying to spare you.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moreover, this I say, brothers, the time left is reduced. From now on, let those who have wives be as though they had none, <span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and those who weep as those who do not weep, and those who rejoice as those who do not rejoice, and those who buy as those who do not possess, <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and those making use of the world as those not using it to the full; for the scene of this world is changing. <span id="pos20508"></span><span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Indeed, I want you to be free from anxiety. The unmarried man is anxious for the things of the Lord, <span id="page1533" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1533" data-before-text="1533"></span>how he may gain the Lord’s approval. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But the married man is anxious for the things of the world, how he may gain the approval of his wife, <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> and he is divided. Further, the unmarried woman, as well as the virgin, is anxious for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in her body and in her spirit. However, the married woman is anxious for the things of the world, how she may gain the approval of her husband. <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> But I am saying this for your personal advantage, not to restrict<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> you, but to move you to what is appropriate and to constant devotion to the Lord without distraction.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But if anyone thinks he is behaving improperly by remaining unmarried,<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> and if he is past the bloom of youth, then this is what should take place: Let him do what he wants; he does not sin. Let them marry. <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But if anyone stands settled in his heart and has no necessity, but has authority over his own will and has made the decision in his own heart to remain unmarried,<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> he will do well. <span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So also, whoever marries<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> does well, but whoever does not marry will do better.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos21725"></span><span id="chapter7_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> A wife is bound as long as her husband is alive. But if her husband should fall asleep in death, she is free to be married to whomever she wants, only in the Lord. <span id="chapter7_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains as she is; and I certainly think I also have God’s spirit.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p157" data-pid="157"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:1</span></a> That is, to have sexual contact with.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:2</span></a> Plural of the Greek <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:15</span></a> Or “separate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p160" data-pid="160"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:17</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p161" data-pid="161"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:25</span></a> Or “those who have never married.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p162" data-pid="162"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:35</span></a> Lit., “to cast a noose upon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p163" data-pid="163"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:36</span></a> Or “toward his virginity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p164" data-pid="164"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:37</span></a> Or “to keep his own virginity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p165" data-pid="165"><a href="1001061150-split7.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 7:38</span></a> Or “gives his virginity in marriage.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
