<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_20.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos57069"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven with the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He seized the dragon, the original serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for 1,000 years. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And he hurled him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he would not mislead the nations anymore until the 1,000 years were ended. After this he must be released for a little while.</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos57497"></span><span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And I saw thrones, and those who sat on them were given authority to judge. Yes, I saw the souls<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> of those executed<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> for the witness they gave about Jesus and for speaking about God, and those who had not worshipped the wild beast or its image and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand. And they came to life and ruled as kings with the Christ for 1,000 years. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> (The rest of the dead did not come to life until the 1,000 years were ended.) This is the first resurrection. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Happy and holy is anyone having part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ, and they will rule as kings with him for the 1,000 years.</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos58230"></span><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now as soon as the 1,000 years have ended, Satan will be released from his prison, <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and he will go out to mislead those nations in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Maʹgog, to gather <span id="page1659" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1659" data-before-text="1659"></span>them together for the war. The number of these is as the sand of the sea. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And they advanced over the whole earth and encircled the camp of the holy ones and the beloved city. But fire came down out of heaven and consumed them. <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the Devil who was misleading them was hurled into the lake of fire and sulfur, where both the wild beast and the false prophet already were; and they will be tormented<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> day and night forever and ever.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="pos58874"></span><span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And I saw a great white throne and the One seated on it. From before him the earth and the heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened. But another scroll was opened; it is the scroll of life. The dead were judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds. <span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the sea gave up the dead in it, and death and the Grave<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> gave up the dead in them, and they were judged individually according to their deeds. <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And death and the Grave<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> were hurled into the lake of fire. This means the second death, the lake of fire. <span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Furthermore, whoever was not found written in the book of life was hurled into the lake of fire.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061170-split20.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 20:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a> and <a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#pos17370">Re 6:9</a> ftn.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061170-split20.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 20:4</span></a> Lit., “executed with the ax.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061170-split20.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 20:10</span></a> Or “restrained; imprisoned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061170-split20.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 20:13</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061170-split20.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 20:14</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
