<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_24.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="pos119067"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>Five days later the high priest An·a·niʹas came down with some elders and a public speaker<span id="footnotesource214"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote214">*</a> named Ter·tulʹlus, and they presented their case against Paul to the governor. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> When he was called, Ter·tulʹlus started accusing him, saying:</p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb">“Seeing that we enjoy great peace through you and that through your forethought reforms are taking place in this nation, <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> at all times and also in all places we acknowledge this, Your Excellency Felix, with the greatest thankfulness. <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But that I may not detain you any further, I beg you to hear us briefly in your kindness. <span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For we have found this man to be a pest,<span id="footnotesource215"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote215">*</a> stirring up seditions among all the Jews throughout the inhabited earth, and he is a spearhead of the sect of the Naz·a·renesʹ. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He also tried to profane the temple, so we seized him. <span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource216"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote216">*</a> —— <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When you examine him yourself, you will find out about all these things of which we are accusing him.”</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> With that the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were true. <span id="pos120081"></span><span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When the governor nodded to Paul to speak, he answered:</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="page1499" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1499" data-before-text="1499"></span>“Knowing well that this nation has had you as judge for many years, I readily speak in my own defense. <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> As you can verify for yourself, it has not been more than 12 days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem; <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and they found me neither arguing with anyone in the temple nor stirring up a mob, either in the synagogues or throughout the city. <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Nor can they prove to you the things they are accusing me of right now. <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But I do admit this to you, that according to the way that they call a sect, in this manner I am rendering sacred service to the God of my forefathers, as I believe all the things set forth in the Law and written in the Prophets. <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And I have hope toward God, which hope these men also look forward to, that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous. <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Because of this I always strive to maintain a clear<span id="footnotesource217"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote217">*</a> conscience before God and men. <span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now after quite a number of years, I arrived to bring gifts of mercy to my nation and to make offerings. <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> While I was caring for these matters, they found me ceremonially cleansed in the temple, but not with a crowd or causing a disturbance. But there were some Jews from the province of Asia <span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> who ought to be present before you to accuse me if they actually have anything against me. <span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Or let the men here say for themselves what wrong they found as I stood before the Sanʹhe·drin, <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> except for this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: ‘Over the resurrection of the dead I am today being judged before you!’”</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos121741"></span><span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, Felix, knowing quite well the facts concerning this Way, began to put them off and say: “Whenever Lysʹi·as the military commander comes down, I will decide these matters involving you.” <span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And he gave orders to the army officer that the man be kept under arrest but given some freedom, and that his people be allowed to attend to his needs.</p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Some days later Felix came with Dru·silʹla his wife, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and listened to him speak about the belief in Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter24_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But as Paul talked about righteousness and self-control and the judgment to come, Felix became frightened and answered: “Go away for now, but when I have an opportunity I will send for you again.” <span id="chapter24_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> At the same time he was hoping that Paul would give him money. For that reason, he sent for him even more frequently and conversed with him. <span id="chapter24_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But when two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and because Felix desired to gain favor with the Jews, he left Paul in custody.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote214"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061148-split24.xhtml#footnotesource214">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 24:1</span></a> Or “a lawyer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote215"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061148-split24.xhtml#footnotesource215">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 24:5</span></a> Or “troublemaker.” Lit., “pestilence.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote216"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061148-split24.xhtml#footnotesource216">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 24:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote217"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061148-split24.xhtml#footnotesource217">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 24:16</span></a> Or “blameless.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
