<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_1.xhtml">1 - 80</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1378" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1378" data-before-text="1378"></span><strong>ACCORDING TO LUKE</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos69"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Seeing that many have undertaken to compile an account of the facts that are given full credence<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> among us, <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> just as these were handed down to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and attendants of the message, <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I resolved also, because I have traced all things from the start with accuracy, to write them to you in logical order, most excellent The·ophʹi·lus, <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> so that you may know fully the certainty of the things that you have been taught orally.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos554"></span><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> In the days of Herod,<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> king of Ju·deʹa, there was a priest named Zech·a·riʹah of the division of A·biʹjah. His wife was from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They both were righteous before God, walking blamelessly in accord with all the commandments and legal requirements of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they both were well along in years.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now as he was serving as priest in the assignment of his division before God, <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> according to the established practice<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> of the priesthood it became his turn to offer incense when he entered into the sanctuary of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the entire multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of offering incense. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> angel appeared to him, standing at the right side of the incense altar. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But Zech·a·riʹah became troubled at the sight, and he was overcome with fear. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> However, the angel said to him: “Do not be afraid, Zech·a·riʹah, because your supplication has been favorably heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to name him John. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You will have joy and great gladness, and many will rejoice over his birth, <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> for he will be great in the sight of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> But he must drink no wine or any alcoholic drink at all, and he will be filled with holy spirit even from before birth,<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and he will turn back many of the sons of Israel to Jehovah<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> their God. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Also, he will go ahead of him with E·liʹjah’s spirit and power, to turn back the hearts of fathers to children and the disobedient ones to the practical wisdom of righteous ones, in order to get ready for Jehovah<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> a prepared people.”</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Zech·a·riʹah said to the angel: “How can I be sure of this? For I am old, and my wife is well along in years.” <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In reply the angel said to him: “I am Gaʹbri·el, who stands near before God, and I was sent to speak with you and to declare this good news to you. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But look! you will be silent and unable to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their appointed time.” <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Meanwhile, the people continued waiting for Zech·a·riʹah, and they were surprised that he delayed so long in the sanctuary. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they perceived that he had just seen a supernatural sight<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> in the sanctuary. He kept making signs to them but remained speechless. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When the days of his holy service<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> were completed, he went off to his home.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Some days later Elizabeth his wife became pregnant, and <span id="page1379" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1379" data-before-text="1379"></span>she kept herself secluded for five months, saying: <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “This is how Jehovah<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> has dealt with me in these days. He has turned his attention to me to take away my reproach among men.”</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos3369"></span><span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> In her sixth month, the angel Gaʹbri·el was sent from God to a city of Galʹi·lee named Nazʹa·reth, <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> to a virgin promised in marriage<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> to a man named Joseph of David’s house, and the name of the virgin was Mary. <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And coming in, the angel said to her: “Greetings, you highly favored one, Jehovah<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> is with you.” <span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But she was deeply disturbed at his words and tried to understand what kind of greeting this might be. <span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So the angel said to her: “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. <span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And look! you will become pregnant<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> and give birth to a son, and you are to name him Jesus. <span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> This one will be great and will be called Son of the Most High, and Jehovah<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> God will give him the throne of David his father, <span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> and he will rule as King over the house of Jacob forever, and there will be no end to his Kingdom.”</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But Mary said to the angel: “How is this to be, since I am not having sexual relations with a man?” <span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> In answer the angel said to her: “Holy spirit will come upon you, and power of the Most High will overshadow you. And for that reason the one who is born will be called holy, God’s Son. <span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And look! Elizabeth your relative has also conceived a son, in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her, the so-called barren woman; <span id="chapter1_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> for no declaration<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> will be impossible for God.” <span id="chapter1_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then Mary said: “Look! Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> slave girl! May it happen to me according to your declaration.” At that the angel departed from her.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos4900"></span><span id="chapter1_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So Mary set out in those days and traveled with haste into the mountainous country, to a city of Judah, <span id="chapter1_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> and she entered the home of Zech·a·riʹah and greeted Elizabeth. <span id="chapter1_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Well, as Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the infant in her womb leaped, and Elizabeth was filled with holy spirit <span id="chapter1_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> and loudly cried out: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruitage of your womb! <span id="chapter1_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> So how is it that this privilege is mine, to have the mother of my Lord come to me? <span id="chapter1_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> For look! as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy. <span id="chapter1_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Happy too is she who believed, for there will be a complete fulfillment of those things spoken to her from Jehovah.”<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a></p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos5626"></span><span id="chapter1_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> And Mary said: “My soul<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> magnifies Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> and my spirit cannot keep from being overjoyed at God my Savior, <span id="chapter1_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> because he has looked upon the low position of his slave girl. For look! from now on all generations will declare me happy, <span id="chapter1_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> because the powerful One has done great deeds for me, and holy is his name, <span id="chapter1_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> and for generation after generation his mercy is upon those who fear him. <span id="chapter1_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> He has acted mightily with his arm; he has scattered those who are haughty in the intention of their hearts. <span id="chapter1_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> He has brought down powerful men from thrones and has exalted lowly ones; <span id="chapter1_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> he has fully satisfied hungry ones with <span id="page1380" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1380" data-before-text="1380"></span>good things and has sent away empty-handed those who had wealth. <span id="chapter1_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> He has come to the aid of Israel his servant, remembering his mercy, <span id="chapter1_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> just as he spoke to our forefathers, to Abraham and to his offspring,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> forever.” <span id="chapter1_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Mary stayed with her about three months and then returned to her own home.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos6614"></span><span id="chapter1_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> The time now came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she gave birth to a son. <span id="chapter1_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> And the neighbors and her relatives heard that Jehovah<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> had magnified his mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. <span id="chapter1_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> On the eighth day they came to circumcise the young child, and they were going to name him after his father, Zech·a·riʹah. <span id="chapter1_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> But his mother said in reply: “No! but he will be called John.” <span id="chapter1_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> At this they said to her: “Not one of your relatives is called by this name.” <span id="chapter1_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> Then they asked his father by signs what he wanted him to be called. <span id="chapter1_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> So he asked for a tablet and wrote: “John is his name.” At this they were all amazed. <span id="chapter1_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> Instantly his mouth was opened and his tongue was set free and he began to speak, praising God. <span id="chapter1_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> And fear fell upon all those living in their neighborhood, and all these things began to be talked about in the whole mountainous country of Ju·deʹa. <span id="chapter1_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> And all who heard noted it in their hearts, saying: “What will this young child turn out to be?” For the hand of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> was indeed with him.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos7688"></span><span id="chapter1_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> Then Zech·a·riʹah his father was filled with holy spirit, and he prophesied, saying: <span id="chapter1_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> “Let Jehovah<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> be praised, the God of Israel, because he has turned his attention to his people and has brought them deliverance. <span id="chapter1_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> And he has raised up a horn of salvation<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> for us in the house of David his servant, <span id="chapter1_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> just as he has spoken through the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, <span id="chapter1_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> of a salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all those hating us; <span id="chapter1_verse72"></span><strong><sup>72</sup></strong> to show mercy in connection with our forefathers and to call to mind his holy covenant, <span id="chapter1_verse73"></span><strong><sup>73</sup></strong> the oath that he swore to Abraham our forefather, <span id="chapter1_verse74"></span><strong><sup>74</sup></strong> to grant us, after we have been rescued from the hands of enemies, the privilege of fearlessly rendering sacred service to him <span id="chapter1_verse75"></span><strong><sup>75</sup></strong> with loyalty and righteousness before him all our days. <span id="chapter1_verse76"></span><strong><sup>76</sup></strong> But as for you, young child, you will be called a prophet of the Most High, for you will go ahead of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> to prepare his ways, <span id="chapter1_verse77"></span><strong><sup>77</sup></strong> to give knowledge of salvation to his people by forgiveness of their sins, <span id="chapter1_verse78"></span><strong><sup>78</sup></strong> because of the tender compassion of our God. With this compassion a daybreak will visit us from on high, <span id="chapter1_verse79"></span><strong><sup>79</sup></strong> to give light to those sitting in darkness and death’s shadow and to guide our feet in the way of peace.”</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse80"></span><strong><sup>80</sup></strong> And the young child grew up and became strong in spirit, and he continued in the desert until the day he showed himself openly to Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p226" data-pid="226"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:1</span></a> Or “credibility.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p227" data-pid="227"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:5</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos44070">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p228" data-pid="228"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p229" data-pid="229"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:9</span></a> Or “custom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p231" data-pid="231"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:11</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p232" data-pid="232"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p233" data-pid="233"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:15</span></a> Or “right from his mother’s womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:17</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:22</span></a> Or “a vision.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:23</span></a> Or “his public service.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:27</span></a> Or “engaged.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:28</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:31</span></a> Or “conceive in your womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:37</span></a> Or “nothing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:38</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:45</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:46</span></a> Or “My whole being.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:46</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:55</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:58</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:66</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:68</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:69</span></a> Or “a powerful savior.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos48682">Glossary</a>, “Horn.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061146.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 1:76</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
