<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_5.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos25390"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>When Hiʹram the king of Tyre heard that Solʹo·mon had been anointed as king in place of his father, he sent his servants to Solʹo·mon, for Hiʹram had always been a friend of David’s.<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In turn Solʹo·mon sent word to Hiʹram: <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “You well know that David my father was not able to build a house for the name of Jehovah his God because of the wars waged against him from every side until Jehovah put his enemies under the soles of his feet. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But now Jehovah my God has given me rest on all sides. There is no one opposing me and nothing bad happening. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So I intend to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God, just as Jehovah promised to David my father, saying: ‘Your son whom I will put on your throne in your place, he is the one who will build the house for my name.’ <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now command your people to cut cedars of Lebʹa·non for me. My servants will work with your servants, and I will pay the wages of your servants according to the rate you set, for you are aware that not one of us knows how to cut trees like the Si·doʹni·ans.”</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When Hiʹram heard Solʹo·mon’s words, he rejoiced greatly and said: “May Jehovah be praised today, for he has given David a wise son over this great<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> people!” <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Hiʹram sent word to Solʹo·mon: “I have heard the message you sent to me. I will do all you desire in providing the cedar and juniper timbers. <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> My servants will bring them down from Lebʹa·non to the sea, and I will make them into log rafts to go by sea to the place that you designate to me. I will have them broken up there, and you can carry them away. In exchange, you will provide the food that I request for my household.”</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Hiʹram supplied all the timbers of cedar and juniper that Solʹo·mon desired. <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And Solʹo·mon gave Hiʹram 20,000 cor measures<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> of wheat as food supplies for his household and 20 cor measures of very fine olive oil.<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> That was what Solʹo·mon gave Hiʹram year after year. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And Jehovah gave Solʹo·mon wisdom, just as He had promised him. And there was peace between Hiʹram and Solʹo·mon, and the two of them made a treaty.<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a></p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="pos27490"></span><span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon conscripted men for forced labor out of all Israel; 30,000 men were conscripted. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He would send them to Lebʹa·non in shifts of 10,000 each month. They would spend a month in Lebʹa·non and two months at their homes; and Ad·o·niʹram was over those conscripted for forced labor. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon had 70,000 common laborers<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> and 80,000 stonecutters in the mountains, <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> as well as Solʹo·mon’s 3,300 princely deputies who served as foremen to supervise the workmen. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> At the king’s order, they quarried large stones, expensive stones, to lay the foundation of the house with hewn stones. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Solʹo·mon’s <span id="page489" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="489" data-before-text="489"></span>builders and Hiʹram’s builders and the Geʹbal·ites did the cutting, and they prepared the timbers and the stones to build the house.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:1</span></a> Or “had always loved David.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:7</span></a> Or “numerous.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:11</span></a> A cor equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:11</span></a> Lit., “of beaten oil.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:12</span></a> Or “covenant.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061115-split5.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 5:15</span></a> Or “burden bearers.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
