<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Timothy 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061159"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav55.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav55_1.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1593" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1593" data-before-text="1593"></span><strong>THE SECOND TO TIMOTHY</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos76"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by God’s will according to the promise of the life that is through Christ Jesus, <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> to Timothy, a beloved child:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb">May you have undeserved kindness, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos327"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I am grateful to God, to whom I am rendering sacred service as my forefathers did, and with a clean conscience, never ceasing to remember you in my supplications night and day. <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As I remember your tears, I am longing to see you, so that I may get filled with joy. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For I recall your unhypocritical faith, which dwelled first in your grandmother Loʹis and your mother Euʹnice, but which I am confident is also in you.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos752"></span><span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For this reason I remind you to stir up like a fire the gift of God that is in you through the laying of my hands on you. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For God did not give us a spirit of cowardice, but one of power and of love and of soundness of mind. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So do not become ashamed either of the witness about our Lord or of me, a prisoner for his sake, but take your part in suffering adversity for the good news by relying on the power of God. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He saved us and called us with a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and undeserved kindness. This was given to us in connection with Christ Jesus before times long ago, <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> but now it has been made clearly evident through the manifestation of our Savior, Christ Jesus, who has abolished death and has shed light on life and incorruption through the good news, <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos1666"></span><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> This is why I am also suffering these things, but I am not ashamed. For I know the One whom I have believed, and I am confident that he is able to guard what I have laid up in trust with him until that day. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Keep holding to the standard<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of wholesome<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> words that you heard from me with the faith and love that result from union with Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Guard this fine trust by means of the holy spirit, which is dwelling in us.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos2111"></span><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You know this, that all the men in the province of Asia have turned away from me, including Phy·gelʹus and Her·mogʹe·nes. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> May the Lord grant mercy to the household of On·e·siphʹo·rus, for he often refreshed me, and he did not become ashamed of my prison chains. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> On the contrary, when he was in Rome, he diligently looked for me and found me. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> May the Lord grant him to find mercy from Jehovah<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> in that day. And you well know all the services he rendered in Ephʹe·sus.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p26" data-pid="26"><a href="1001061159.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Tim. 1:13</span></a> Or “outline.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p27" data-pid="27"><a href="1001061159.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Tim. 1:13</span></a> Or “healthful; beneficial.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p28" data-pid="28"><a href="1001061159.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Tim. 1:18</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
