<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_19.xhtml">1 - 41</a></p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos92151"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>In the course of events, while A·polʹlos was in Corinth, Paul went through the inland regions and came down to Ephʹe·sus. There he found some disciples <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and said to them: “Did you receive holy spirit when you became believers?” They replied to him: “Why, we have never heard that there is a holy spirit.” <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So he said: “In what, then, were you baptized?” They said: “In John’s baptism.” <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Paul said: “John baptized with the baptism in symbol of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one coming after him, that is, in Jesus.” <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> On hearing this, they got baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And when Paul laid his hands on them, the holy spirit came upon them, and they began speaking in foreign languages and prophesying. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> There were about 12 men in all.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="pos92949"></span><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Entering the synagogue, for three months he spoke with boldness, giving talks and reasoning persuasively about the Kingdom of God. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But when some stubbornly refused to believe,<span id="footnotesource187"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote187">*</a> speaking injuriously about The Way before the crowd, he withdrew from them and separated the disciples from them, giving talks daily in the school auditorium of Ty·ranʹnus. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This went on for two years, so that all those living in the province of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="pos93445"></span><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And God kept performing extraordinary powerful works through the hands of Paul, <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> so that even cloths and aprons that had touched his body were carried to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the wicked spirits came out. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But some of the Jews who traveled around casting out demons also tried to use the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had wicked spirits; they would say: “I solemnly charge you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.” <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now there were seven sons of a Jewish chief priest named Sceʹva doing this. <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But in answer the wicked spirit said to them: “I know Jesus and I am acquainted with Paul; but who are you?” <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At that the man with the wicked spirit leaped on them, overpowered them one after the other, and prevailed against them, so that they fled naked and wounded out of that house. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> This became known to all, both the Jews and the Greeks who lived in Ephʹe·sus; and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus went on being magnified. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And many of those who had become believers would come and confess and report their practices openly. <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Indeed, quite a number of those who practiced magical arts brought their books together and burned them up before everybody. And they calculated their value and found them worth 50,000 pieces of silver. <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Thus in a mighty way, the <span id="page1491" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1491" data-before-text="1491"></span>word of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> kept growing and prevailing.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos94860"></span><span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After these things had taken place, Paul resolved in his spirit that after going through Mac·e·doʹni·a and A·chaʹia, he would travel to Jerusalem. He said: “After going there, I must also see Rome.” <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So he sent to Mac·e·doʹni·a two of those who ministered to him, Timothy and E·rasʹtus, but he himself stayed on for some time in the province of Asia.</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> At that time quite a disturbance arose concerning The Way. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For a man named De·meʹtri·us, a silversmith who made silver shrines of Arʹte·mis, brought considerable profit to the craftsmen. <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He gathered them and others who worked at such things and said: “Men, you well know that from this business comes our prosperity. <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Now you see and hear how, not only in Ephʹe·sus but in nearly all the province of Asia, this Paul has persuaded a considerable crowd and turned them to another opinion, saying that the gods made by hands are not really gods. <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moreover, the danger exists not only that this business of ours will come into disrepute but also that the temple of the great goddess Arʹte·mis will be viewed as nothing, and she who is worshipped in the whole province of Asia and the inhabited earth will be deprived of her magnificence.” <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Hearing this and becoming full of anger, the men began crying out: “Great is Arʹte·mis of the E·pheʹsians!”</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So the city became filled with confusion, and all together they rushed into the theater, dragging along with them Gaʹius and Ar·is·tarʹchus, Mac·e·doʹni·ans, traveling companions of Paul. <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> For his part, Paul was willing to go inside to the people, but the disciples would not permit him. <span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Even some of the commissioners of festivals and games who were friendly to him sent word to him, pleading with him not to risk going into the theater. <span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Some were, in fact, crying out one thing and others something else; for the assembly was in confusion and the majority of them did not know the reason why they had come together. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So they brought Alexander out of the crowd, the Jews shoving him forward, and Alexander motioned with his hand and wanted to make his defense to the people. <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But when they recognized that he was a Jew, they all started shouting in unison for about two hours: “Great is Arʹte·mis of the E·pheʹsians!”</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> When the city recorder had finally quieted the crowd, he said: “Men of Ephʹe·sus, who really is there among men who does not know that the city of the E·pheʹsians is the temple keeper of the great Arʹte·mis and of the image that fell from heaven? <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Since these things are indisputable, you should keep calm and not act rashly. <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> For you have brought these men here who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of our goddess. <span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So if De·meʹtri·us and the craftsmen with him do have a case against someone, court days are held and there are proconsuls;<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> let them bring charges against one another. <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But if you are searching for anything beyond that, it must be decided in a regular assembly. <span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> For we are really in danger of being charged with sedition over today’s affair, since there are no <span id="page1492" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1492" data-before-text="1492"></span>grounds we could present as a reason for this disorderly mob.” <span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And after saying this, he dismissed the assembly.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote187"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061148-split19.xhtml#footnotesource187">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 19:9</span></a> Or “went on hardening themselves and not believing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061148-split19.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 19:20</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061148-split19.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 19:38</span></a> A proconsul was the Roman governor of a province. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos83880">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
