<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_16.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="pos64051"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>And the land that fell by lot<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> to the descendants of Joseph was from the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho to the waters east of <span id="page346" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="346" data-before-text="346"></span>Jerʹi·cho, through the wilderness going up from Jerʹi·cho into the mountainous region of Bethʹel. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> It extended from Bethʹel belonging to Luz and continued to the boundary of the Arʹchites at Atʹa·roth, <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> then it went down westward to the boundary of the Japhʹle·tites as far as the boundary of Lower Beth-hoʹron and Geʹzer, and it ended at the sea.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Joseph’s descendants, Ma·nasʹseh and Eʹphra·im, took possession of their land. <span id="pos64622"></span><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The boundary of the descendants of Eʹphra·im by their families was as follows: The boundary of their inheritance to the east was Atʹa·roth-adʹdar, as far as Upper Beth-hoʹron, <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and the boundary extended to the sea. Mich·meʹthath was on the north, and the boundary went around east to Taʹa·nath-shiʹloh, and it passed on the east to Ja·noʹah. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then it went down from Ja·noʹah to Atʹa·roth and Naʹa·rah and reached to Jerʹi·cho and extended to the Jordan. <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> From Tapʹpu·ah the boundary continued westward to the Wadi of Kaʹnah, and it ended at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of Eʹphra·im by their families; <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> the descendants of Eʹphra·im also had enclave cities in the midst of the inheritance of Ma·nasʹseh, all the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But they did not drive away the Caʹnaan·ites who were dwelling in Geʹzer, and the Caʹnaan·ites continue to dwell among Eʹphra·im to this day and have been subjected to forced labor.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061110-split16.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 16:1</span></a> Or “was allotted.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
