<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_13.xhtml">1 - 58</a></p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos51009"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>On that day Jesus left the house and was sitting by the sea. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And such large crowds gathered to him that he went aboard a boat and sat down, and all the crowd was standing on the beach. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then he told them many things by illustrations, saying: “Look! A sower went out to sow. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As he was sowing, some seeds fell alongside the road, and the birds came and ate them up. <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Others fell on rocky ground where there was not much soil, and they immediately sprang up because the soil was not deep. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But when the sun rose, they were scorched, and they withered because they had no root. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Others fell among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked them. <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Still others fell on the fine soil, and they began to yield fruit, this one 100 times more, that one 60, the other 30. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Let the one who has ears listen.”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos51847"></span><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the disciples came and said to him: “Why do you speak to them by the use of illustrations?” <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> In reply he said: “To you it is granted to understand the sacred secrets of the Kingdom of the heavens, but to them it is not granted. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For whoever has, more will be given him, and he will be made to abound; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> That is why I speak to them by the use of illustrations; for looking, they look in vain, and hearing, they hear in vain, nor do they get the sense of it. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled in their case. It says: ‘You will indeed hear but by no means get the sense of it, and you will indeed look but by no means see. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For the heart of this people has grown unreceptive, and with their ears they have heard without response, and they have shut their eyes, so that they might never see with their eyes and hear with their ears and get the sense of it with their hearts and turn back and I heal them.’</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “However, happy are your eyes because they see and your ears because they hear. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous men desired to see the things you are observing but did not see them, and to hear the things you are hearing but did not hear them.</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="pos53154"></span><span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Now listen to the illustration of the man who sowed. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Where anyone hears the word of the Kingdom but does not get the sense of it, the wicked one comes and snatches <span id="page1323" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1323" data-before-text="1323"></span>away what has been sown in his heart; this is the one sown alongside the road. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> As for the one sown on rocky ground, this is the one hearing the word and at once accepting it with joy. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Yet, he has no root in himself but continues for a time, and after tribulation or persecution has arisen on account of the word, he is at once stumbled. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> As for the one sown among the thorns, this is the one hearing the word, but the anxiety of this system of things<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> and the deceptive power of riches choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> As for the one sown upon the fine soil, this is the one hearing the word and getting the sense of it, who really does bear fruit and produces, this one 100 times more, that one 60, the other 30.”</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos54096"></span><span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He presented another illustration to them, saying: “The Kingdom of the heavens may be likened to a man who sowed fine seed in his field. <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> While men were sleeping, his enemy came and oversowed weeds in among the wheat and left. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When the stalk sprouted and produced fruit, then the weeds also appeared. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So the slaves of the master of the house came and said to him, ‘Master, did you not sow fine seed in your field? How, then, does it have weeds?’ <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He said to them, ‘An enemy, a man, did this.’ The slaves said to him, ‘Do you want us, then, to go out and collect them?’ <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He said, ‘No, for fear that while collecting the weeds, you uproot the wheat with them. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the harvest season, I will tell the reapers: First collect the weeds and bind them in bundles to burn them up; then gather the wheat into my storehouse.’”</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos55002"></span><span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He presented another illustration to them, saying: “The Kingdom of the heavens is like a mustard grain that a man took and planted in his field. <span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> It is, in fact, the tiniest of all the seeds, but when it has grown, it is the largest of the vegetable plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of heaven come and find lodging among its branches.”</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> He told them another illustration: “The Kingdom of the heavens is like leaven that a woman took and mixed with three large measures of flour until the whole mass was fermented.”</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="pos55547"></span><span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds by illustrations. Indeed, without an illustration he would not speak to them, <span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet who said: “I will open my mouth with illustrations; I will proclaim things hidden since the founding.”<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a></p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos55843"></span><span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then after dismissing the crowds, he went into the house. His disciples came to him and said: “Explain to us the illustration of the weeds in the field.” <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> In response he said: “The sower of the fine seed is the Son of man; <span id="chapter13_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> the field is the world. As for the fine seed, these are the sons of the Kingdom, but the weeds are the sons of the wicked one, <span id="chapter13_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> and the enemy who sowed them is the Devil. The harvest is a conclusion of a system of things,<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> and the reapers are angels. <span id="chapter13_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Therefore, just as the weeds are collected and burned with fire, so it will be in the conclusion of the system of things.<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> The Son of man will send his angels, <span id="page1324" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1324" data-before-text="1324"></span>and they will collect out from his Kingdom all things that cause stumbling and people who practice lawlessness, <span id="chapter13_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> and they will pitch them into the fiery furnace. There is where their weeping and the gnashing of their teeth will be. <span id="chapter13_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> At that time the righteous ones will shine as brightly as the sun in the Kingdom of their Father. Let the one who has ears listen.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos56897"></span><span id="chapter13_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> “The Kingdom of the heavens is like a treasure, hidden in the field, that a man found and hid; and because of his joy, he goes and sells everything he has and buys that field.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> “Again the Kingdom of the heavens is like a traveling merchant seeking fine pearls. <span id="chapter13_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Upon finding one pearl of high value, he went away and promptly sold all the things he had and bought it.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="pos57282"></span><span id="chapter13_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> “Again the Kingdom of the heavens is like a dragnet let down into the sea and gathering fish of every kind. <span id="chapter13_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> When it was full, they hauled it up onto the beach, and sitting down, they collected the fine ones into containers, but the unsuitable they threw away. <span id="chapter13_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> That is how it will be in the conclusion of the system of things.<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> The angels will go out and separate the wicked from among the righteous <span id="chapter13_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> and will cast them into the fiery furnace. There is where their weeping and the gnashing of their teeth will be.</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="pos57821"></span><span id="chapter13_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> “Did you get the sense of all these things?” They said to him: “Yes.” <span id="chapter13_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “That being the case, every public instructor who is taught about the Kingdom of the heavens is like a man, the master of the house, who brings out of his treasure store things both new and old.”</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="pos58123"></span><span id="chapter13_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> When Jesus had finished these illustrations, he departed from there. <span id="chapter13_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> After coming into his home territory, he began to teach them in their synagogue, so that they were astounded and said: “Where did this man get this wisdom and these powerful works? <span id="chapter13_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> Is this not the carpenter’s son? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? <span id="chapter13_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> And his sisters, are they not all with us? Where, then, did he get all of this?” <span id="chapter13_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> So they began to stumble because of him. But Jesus said to them: “A prophet is not without honor except in his home territory and in his own house.” <span id="chapter13_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> And he did not perform many powerful works there on account of their lack of faith.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061144-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 13:22</span></a> Or “this age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061144-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 13:35</span></a> Or possibly, “the founding of the world.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061144-split13.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 13:39</span></a> Or “an age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061144-split13.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 13:40</span></a> Or “the age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061144-split13.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 13:49</span></a> Or “the age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
