<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_25.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="pos104145"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>“When a dispute arises between men, they may present themselves before the judges, and they will judge them and pronounce the righteous one innocent and the wicked one guilty. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> If the wicked one deserves to be beaten, the judge will have him lie down prostrate, and he will be beaten in his presence. The number of strokes should correspond to the wickedness of his deed. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He may beat him with up to 40 strokes, but no more. If he would continue beating him with more strokes than this, your brother would be disgraced before your eyes.</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="pos104699"></span><span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “You must not muzzle a bull when it is threshing out grain.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="pos104764"></span><span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “If brothers dwell together and one of them dies without having a son, the wife of the dead one should not marry someone from outside the family. Her brother-in-law should go to her, take her as his wife, and perform brother-in-law marriage with her. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The firstborn whom she will bear will carry on the name of his dead brother, so that his name may not be wiped out of Israel.</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Now if the man does not want to marry his brother’s widow, his brother’s widow should then go to the elders at the city gate and say, ‘My husband’s brother has refused to preserve his brother’s name in Israel. He <span id="page308" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="308" data-before-text="308"></span>has not consented to perform brother-in-law marriage with me.’ <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The elders of his city must call him and speak to him. Should he insist and say, ‘I do not want to marry her,’ <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> then his brother’s widow should approach him before the elders, remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and say, ‘That is what should be done to the man who will not build up his brother’s household.’ <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> After that his family name<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> in Israel will be known as ‘The house of the one who had his sandal removed.’</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="pos105881"></span><span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “If two men get into a fight with each other and the wife of the one intervenes to protect her husband from the one striking him and she reaches out her hand and grabs hold of him by his private parts, <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> you must amputate her hand. You<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> should not feel sorry.</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="pos106152"></span><span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “You must not have in your bag two different stone weights, a large one and a small one. <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You must not have in your house two different measuring containers,<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> a large one and a small one. <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You should keep an accurate and honest weight and an accurate and honest measure, so that you will live long in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For every unjust person who does such things is detestable to Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="pos106607"></span><span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “Remember what Amʹa·lek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt, <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> how he met you along the way and attacked all those straggling behind you when you were exhausted and weary. He did not fear God. <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> When Jehovah your God has given you rest from all your enemies around you in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess, you should wipe out the mention of Amʹa·lek from under the heavens. You must not forget.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p543" data-pid="543"><a href="1001061109-split25.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 25:10</span></a> Or “the name of his household.” Lit., “his name.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p544" data-pid="544"><a href="1001061109-split25.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 25:12</span></a> Lit., “Your eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p545" data-pid="545"><a href="1001061109-split25.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 25:14</span></a> Lit., “in your house an ephah and an ephah.” See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
