<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_3.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos8782"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>The war between the house of Saul and the house of David dragged on; and David kept getting stronger, and the house of Saul grew steadily weaker.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos8933"></span><span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Meanwhile, sons were born to David in Hebʹron. His firstborn was Amʹnon by A·hinʹo·am of Jezʹre·el. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> His second was Chilʹe·ab by Abʹi·gail, the widow of Naʹbal the Carʹmel·ite; and the third was Abʹsa·lom the son of Maʹa·cah, the daughter of Talʹmai<span id="page445" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="445" data-before-text="445"></span> the king of Geshʹur. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The fourth was Ad·o·niʹjah the son of Hagʹgith, and the fifth was Sheph·a·tiʹah the son of A·biʹtal. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The sixth was Ithʹre·am by David’s wife Egʹlah. These were born to David in Hebʹron.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="pos9414"></span><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> While the war between the house of Saul and the house of David continued, Abʹner kept strengthening his position in the house of Saul. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now Saul had had a concubine whose name was Rizʹpah, the daughter of Aʹiah. Ish-boʹsheth later said to Abʹner: “Why did you have relations with the concubine of my father?” <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Abʹner grew very angry over the words of Ish-boʹsheth and said: “Am I a dog’s head from Judah? Until this very day, I have shown loyal love toward the house of your father Saul and to his brothers and his friends, and I have not betrayed you into the hand of David; yet today you call me to account for an error concerning a woman. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> May God do so to Abʹner and add to it if I do not do for David just as Jehovah swore to him: <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba.” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He was not able to say one more word in reply to Abʹner, for he was afraid of him.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Abʹner immediately sent messengers to David, saying: “To whom does the land belong?” He added: “Make a covenant with me, and I will do whatever I can<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> to turn all Israel to your side.” <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> To this he replied: “Good! I will make a covenant with you. The only thing I ask of you is that you do not try to see my face unless first you bring Miʹchal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see me.” <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then David sent messengers to Ish-boʹsheth, Saul’s son, saying: “Give me my wife Miʹchal, to whom I became engaged for 100 foreskins of the Phi·lisʹtines.” <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Ish-boʹsheth sent to take her from her husband, Palʹti·el the son of Laʹish. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But her husband kept walking with her, weeping as he followed her as far as Ba·huʹrim. Then Abʹner said to him: “Go, return!” At that he returned.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Meanwhile, Abʹner sent word to the elders of Israel, saying: “For some time you wanted to have David as king over you. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now act, for Jehovah said to David: ‘By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Phi·lisʹtines and from the hand of all their enemies.’” <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then Abʹner spoke to the people of Benjamin. Abʹner also went to speak privately to David at Hebʹron to tell him what Israel and the whole house of Benjamin had agreed upon.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When Abʹner came to David at Hebʹron with 20 men, David held a feast for Abʹner and for the men with him. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Abʹner said to David: “Let me go and gather all Israel together to my lord the king, so that they may make a covenant with you, and you will become king over all that you desire.”<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> So David sent Abʹner off, and he went his way in peace.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos12069"></span><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Just then, David’s servants and Joʹab returned from a raid, bringing a great quantity of spoil back with them. Abʹner was no longer with David in Hebʹron, for he had sent him on his way in peace. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When Joʹab and all the army that was with him arrived, Joʹab was told: “Abʹner the son of Ner came to <span id="page446" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="446" data-before-text="446"></span>the king, and he sent him off, and he went his way in peace.” <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So Joʹab went in to the king and said: “What have you done? Here Abʹner came to you. Why did you send him off so that he successfully got away? <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> You know Abʹner the son of Ner! He came here to fool you and to get to know your every move and to find out everything that you are doing.”</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So Joʹab left David and sent messengers after Abʹner, and they brought him back from the cistern of Siʹrah; but David did not know anything about it. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When Abʹner returned to Hebʹron, Joʹab took him aside inside the gate to speak with him privately. However, there he stabbed him in the abdomen, and he died; this was for killing<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> his brother Asʹa·hel. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When David heard about it later, he said: “I and my kingdom are forever innocent before Jehovah of the bloodguilt for Abʹner the son of Ner. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> May it turn back on the head of Joʹab and on the entire house of his father. May Joʹab’s house never be without a man suffering from a discharge or a leper or a man working at the spindle<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> or one falling by the sword or one in need of food!” <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So Joʹab and his brother A·bishʹai killed Abʹner because he had put Asʹa·hel their brother to death in the battle at Gibʹe·on.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos13652"></span><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then David said to Joʹab and all the people with him: “Rip your garments apart and tie on sackcloth and wail over Abʹner.” King David himself was walking behind the funeral bier. <span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> They buried Abʹner in Hebʹron; and the king wept loudly at Abʹner’s tomb, and all the people gave way to weeping. <span id="chapter3_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The king chanted over Abʹner and said:</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sz">“Should Abʹner die the death of a senseless person?</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Your hands had not been bound,</p><p data-pid="37" class="p37 sz">And your feet were not in fetters.<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a></p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sz">You fell like one falling before criminals.”<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a></p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb">At that all the people wept over him again.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Later all the people came to give David bread for consolation<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> while it was still daytime, but David swore: “May God do so to me and add to it if before the sun sets I taste bread or anything at all!” <span id="chapter3_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> All the people took notice, and it pleased them. Like everything that the king did, it pleased all the people. <span id="chapter3_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> So all the people and all Israel knew on that day that the king was not responsible for having Abʹner the son of Ner put to death. <span id="chapter3_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then the king said to his servants: “Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel? <span id="chapter3_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Today I am weak, although anointed as king, and these men, the sons of Ze·ruʹiah, are too brutal for me. May Jehovah repay the evildoer according to his own evil.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:12</span></a> Lit., “and look! my hand is with you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p269" data-pid="269"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:21</span></a> Or “your soul desires.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p270" data-pid="270"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:27</span></a> Lit., “for the blood of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p271" data-pid="271"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:29</span></a> Perhaps referring to a crippled man required to do women’s work.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p272" data-pid="272"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:34</span></a> Lit., “copper.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p273" data-pid="273"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:34</span></a> Lit., “the sons of unrighteousness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p274" data-pid="274"><a href="1001061114-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:35</span></a> Or “bread of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
