<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_24.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="pos100421"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>“If a man marries a woman but she does not please him because he found something indecent about her, he must write out a certificate of divorce for her, hand it to her, and dismiss her from his house. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> After she leaves his house, she may go and become another man’s wife. <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> If the second man hates<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> her and writes out a certificate of divorce for her, hands it to her, and dismisses her from his house or if the second man who married her should die, <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> her first husband who dismissed her will not be allowed to take her back again as his wife after she has been defiled, for that is something detestable to Jehovah. You must not bring sin into the land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance.</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “When a man is newly married, he should not serve in the army or be given any other duties. He should remain exempt for one year and stay at home and bring joy to his wife.</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="pos101319"></span><span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “No one should seize a hand mill or its upper millstone as security for a loan,<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> for that would be taking someone’s livelihood<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> as security.</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “If someone is found to have kidnapped one<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> of his Israelite brothers and he has mistreated him and sold him, the kidnapper must die. You should remove what is bad from your midst.</p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “When there is an outbreak of leprosy,<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> be very careful to do according to all that the Levitical priests will instruct you. Be careful to do exactly as I commanded them. <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Remember what Jehovah your God did to Mirʹi·am on the way when you were coming out of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="pos101927"></span><span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “If you make any sort of loan to your neighbor, you must not enter into his house to seize from him what he has offered as security. <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You should stand outside, and the man who received the loan should bring outside to you what he is giving as security. <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And if the man is in need, you must not go to bed with what he gave as security <span id="page307" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="307" data-before-text="307"></span>still in your possession. <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You should by all means return to him what he has given as security as soon as the sun sets, and he will go to bed with his garment, and he will bless you; and it will mean righteousness for you before Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “You must not defraud a hired worker who is in need and poor, whether one of your brothers or a foreign resident in your land, within your cities.<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You should give him his wages that very day, before the sun sets, because he is in need and his life<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> depends on his wages. Otherwise, he will cry out to Jehovah against you, and you will be guilty of sin.</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Fathers should not be put to death for what their children do, and children should not be put to death for what their fathers do. A person should be put to death only for his own sin.</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “You must not pervert the judgment of the foreign resident or of the fatherless child,<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> and you must not seize the garment of a widow as security for a loan.<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Remember that you became a slave in Egypt, and Jehovah your God redeemed you from there. That is why I am commanding you to do this.</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="pos103413"></span><span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “When you reap your harvest from your field and you have forgotten a sheaf in the field, do not go back to get it. It should be left for the foreign resident, the fatherless child, and the widow, so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all that you do.</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “When you beat your olive tree, you should not repeat the procedure on its branches. What is left should remain for the foreign resident, the fatherless child, and the widow.</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you must not return to gather the leftovers. They should be left for the foreign resident, the fatherless child, and the widow. <span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Remember that you became a slave in the land of Egypt. That is why I am commanding you to do this.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p534" data-pid="534"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:3</span></a> Or “rejects.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p535" data-pid="535"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:6</span></a> Or “as a pledge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p536" data-pid="536"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:6</span></a> Or “taking a life; taking a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p537" data-pid="537"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:7</span></a> Or “a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p538" data-pid="538"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:8</span></a> The Hebrew word rendered “leprosy” is broad in meaning and can include various contagious skin diseases. It may also include certain infections found on clothing and in houses.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p539" data-pid="539"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:14</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p540" data-pid="540"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:15</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p541" data-pid="541"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:17</span></a> Or “the orphan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p542" data-pid="542"><a href="1001061109-split24.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 24:17</span></a> Or “as a pledge.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
