<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 35</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">35</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_35.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p324" data-pid="324" class="p324 sb"><span id="pos148024"></span><span id="chapter35"></span><span id="chapter35_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>35</strong> </span>Moses later gathered the entire assembly of the Israelites together and said to them: “These are the things that Jehovah has commanded to be done: <span id="chapter35_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Work may be done for six days, but the seventh day will become something holy to you, a sabbath of complete rest to Jehovah. Anybody doing work on it will be put to death. <span id="chapter35_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must not light a fire in any of your dwelling places on the Sabbath day.”</p>
<p id="p325" data-pid="325" class="p325 sb"><span id="pos148436"></span><span id="chapter35_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Moses then said to the entire assembly of the Israelites: “This is what Jehovah has commanded, <span id="chapter35_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> ‘Take up a contribution for Jehovah from among yourselves. Let everyone with a willing heart bring a contribution for Jehovah: gold, silver, copper, <span id="chapter35_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, fine linen, goat hair, <span id="chapter35_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> ram skins dyed red, sealskins, acacia wood, <span id="chapter35_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> oil for the lamps, balsam for the anointing oil and for the perfumed incense, <span id="chapter35_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> onyx stones, and other stones for setting in the ephʹod and the breastpiece.</p>
<p id="p326" data-pid="326" class="p326 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘Let all who are skilled<span id="footnotesource241"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote241">*</a> among you come and make everything that Jehovah has commanded, <span id="chapter35_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> namely, the tabernacle with its tent and its covering, its clasps and its panel frames, its bars, its pillars, and its socket pedestals; <span id="chapter35_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> the Ark and its poles, the cover, and the curtain for the screen; <span id="chapter35_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> the table and its poles and all its utensils and the showbread; <span id="chapter35_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> the lampstand for light and its utensils and its lamps and the oil for lighting; <span id="chapter35_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> the altar of incense and its poles; the anointing oil and the perfumed incense; the screen<span id="footnotesource242"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote242">*</a> for the tabernacle’s entrance; <span id="chapter35_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> the altar of burnt offering and its copper grating, its poles and all its utensils; the basin and its stand; <span id="chapter35_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the hanging curtains of the courtyard, its pillars and its socket pedestals; the screen<span id="footnotesource243"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote243">*</a> of the entrance to the courtyard; <span id="chapter35_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the tent pins of the tabernacle and the tent pins of the courtyard and their cords; <span id="chapter35_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> the finely woven garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for serving as priests.’”</p>
<p id="p327" data-pid="327" class="p327 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So all the assembly of the Israelites went out from <span id="page162" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="162" data-before-text="162"></span>before Moses. <span id="chapter35_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then everyone whose heart impelled him and everyone whose spirit incited him came and brought their contribution for Jehovah to be used for the tent of meeting, for all its service, and for the holy garments. <span id="chapter35_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> They kept coming, the men along with the women, each with a willing heart, bringing brooches, earrings, rings, and other jewelry, as well as all sorts of articles of gold. They all presented their offerings<span id="footnotesource244"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote244">*</a> of gold to Jehovah. <span id="chapter35_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And all who had blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, fine linen, goat hair, ram skins dyed red, and sealskins brought them. <span id="chapter35_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> All those contributing silver and copper brought Jehovah’s contribution, and all who had acacia wood for any part of the work brought it.</p>
<p id="p328" data-pid="328" class="p328 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> All the skilled women spun with their hands, and they brought what they had spun: blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine linen. <span id="chapter35_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And all the skilled women whose hearts impelled them spun the goat hair.</p>
<p id="p329" data-pid="329" class="p329 sb"><span id="chapter35_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And the chieftains brought onyx stones and other stones to be set in the ephʹod and the breastpiece, <span id="chapter35_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and the balsam and the oil for lighting and for the anointing oil and for the perfumed incense. <span id="chapter35_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> All the men and women whose hearts incited them brought something for the work that Jehovah, through Moses, had commanded to be done; the Israelites brought it as a voluntary offering to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p330" data-pid="330" class="p330 sb"><span id="pos151549"></span><span id="chapter35_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then Moses said to the Israelites: “See, Jehovah has chosen Bezʹal·el the son of Uʹri the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah. <span id="chapter35_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He has filled him with the spirit of God, giving him wisdom, understanding, and knowledge of every sort of craftsmanship <span id="chapter35_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> for making artistic designs, for working with gold, silver, and copper, <span id="chapter35_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> for cutting and setting stones, and for making all kinds of artistic wood products. <span id="chapter35_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And he has put it into his heart to teach, he and O·hoʹli·ab the son of A·hisʹa·mach of the tribe of Dan. <span id="chapter35_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> He has filled them with skill<span id="footnotesource245"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote245">*</a> to do all the work of a craftsman, an embroiderer, and a weaver using blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine linen, and of a loom worker. These men will do every sort of work and prepare every sort of design.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote241"><p id="p620" data-pid="620"><a href="1001061106-split35.xhtml#footnotesource241">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 35:10</span></a> Lit., “wise of heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote242"><p id="p621" data-pid="621"><a href="1001061106-split35.xhtml#footnotesource242">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 35:15</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote243"><p id="p622" data-pid="622"><a href="1001061106-split35.xhtml#footnotesource243">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 35:17</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote244"><p id="p623" data-pid="623"><a href="1001061106-split35.xhtml#footnotesource244">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 35:22</span></a> Or “wave offerings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote245"><p id="p624" data-pid="624"><a href="1001061106-split35.xhtml#footnotesource245">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 35:35</span></a> Lit., “wisdom of heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
