<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_24.xhtml">1 - 53</a></p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="pos139112"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>But on the first day of the week, they came very early to the tomb,<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> bringing the spices they had prepared. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> While they were perplexed about this, look! two men in shining garments stood by them. <span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The women became frightened and kept their faces turned toward the ground, so the men said to them: “Why are you looking for the living one among the dead? <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He is not here, but has been raised up. Recall how he spoke to you while he was yet in Galʹi·lee, <span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> saying that the Son of man must be handed over to sinful men and be executed on the stake and on the third day rise.” <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then they remembered his words, <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and they returned from the tomb<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a> and reported all these things to the Eleven and to all the rest. <span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They were Mary Magʹda·lene, Jo·anʹna, and Mary the mother of James. Also, the rest of the women with them were telling these things to the apostles. <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> However, these sayings seemed like nonsense to them, and they would not believe the women.</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But Peter got up and ran to the tomb,<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a> and stooping forward, he saw only the linen cloths. So he went off, wondering to himself what had occurred.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="pos140380"></span><span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But look! on that very day, two of them were traveling to a village named Em·maʹus, about seven miles<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a> from Jerusalem, <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and they were conversing with each other about all these things that had happened.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now as they were conversing and discussing these things, Jesus himself approached and began walking with them, <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. <span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He said to them: “What are these matters that you are debating between yourselves as you walk along?” And they stood still, looking sad. <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> In answer the one named Cleʹo·pas said to him: “Are you a stranger dwelling alone in Jerusalem and do not know<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> the <span id="page1423" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1423" data-before-text="1423"></span>things that have occurred there during these days?” <span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He asked them: “What things?” They said to him: “The things concerning Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, who proved to be a prophet powerful in deed and word before God and all the people; <span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and how our chief priests and rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they nailed him to the stake. <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But we were hoping that this man was the one who was going to deliver Israel. Yes, and besides all these things, this is the third day since these things occurred. <span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Moreover, some women from among us also astonished us, for they went early to the tomb<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and when they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a supernatural sight of angels, who said he is alive. <span id="chapter24_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then some of those who were with us went off to the tomb,<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> and they found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him.”</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So he said to them: “O senseless ones and slow of heart to believe all the things the prophets have spoken! <span id="chapter24_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory?” <span id="chapter24_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And starting with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted to them things pertaining to himself in all the Scriptures.</p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Finally they got close to the village to which they were traveling, and he made as if to travel on farther. <span id="chapter24_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But they urged him to remain, saying: “Stay with us, because it is almost evening and the day is nearly over.” With that he went in to stay with them. <span id="chapter24_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And as he was dining<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> with them, he took the bread, blessed it, broke it, and began handing it to them. <span id="chapter24_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> At that their eyes were fully opened and they recognized him; but he disappeared from them. <span id="chapter24_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And they said to each other: “Were not our hearts burning within us as he was speaking to us on the road, as he was fully opening up<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> the Scriptures to us?” <span id="chapter24_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And they got up in that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the Eleven and those assembled together with them, <span id="chapter24_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> who said: “For a fact the Lord was raised up, and he appeared to Simon!” <span id="chapter24_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then they related the events on the road and how he became known to them by the breaking of the bread.</p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="pos143262"></span><span id="chapter24_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> While they were speaking of these things, he himself stood in their midst and said to them: “May you have peace.” <span id="chapter24_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But because they were terrified and frightened, they imagined that they were seeing a spirit. <span id="chapter24_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So he said to them: “Why are you troubled, and why have doubts come up in your hearts? <span id="chapter24_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones just as you see that I have.” <span id="chapter24_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And as he said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. <span id="chapter24_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> But while they were still not believing for sheer joy and amazement, he said to them: “Do you have something there to eat?” <span id="chapter24_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> So they handed him a piece of broiled fish, <span id="chapter24_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> and he took it and ate it before their eyes.</p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> He then said to them: “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was yet with you, that all the things written about me in the Law <span id="page1424" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1424" data-before-text="1424"></span>of Moses and in the Prophets and Psalms must be fulfilled.” <span id="chapter24_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Then he opened up their minds fully to grasp the meaning of the Scriptures, <span id="chapter24_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> and he said to them, “This is what is written: that the Christ would suffer and rise from among the dead on the third day, <span id="chapter24_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> and on the basis of his name, repentance for forgiveness of sins would be preached in all the nations—starting out from Jerusalem. <span id="chapter24_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> You are to be witnesses of these things. <span id="chapter24_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> And look! I am sending upon you what my Father promised. You, though, stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.”</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="pos144778"></span><span id="chapter24_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Then he led them out as far as Bethʹa·ny, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. <span id="chapter24_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> As he was blessing them, he was parted from them and taken up to heaven. <span id="chapter24_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And they did obeisance<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> to him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. <span id="chapter24_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> And they were continually in the temple, praising God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p id="p445" data-pid="445"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:1</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p id="p446" data-pid="446"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:2</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p447" data-pid="447"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:9</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:12</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:13</span></a> About 11 km. Lit., “60 stadia.” A stadium equaled 185 m (606.95 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:18</span></a> Or possibly, “Are you the only visitor in Jerusalem who does not know?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:22</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:24</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:30</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:32</span></a> Or “clearly explaining.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061146-split24.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 24:52</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
