<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_9.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="page1316" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1316" data-before-text="1316"></span><span id="pos30788"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>So boarding the boat, he traveled across and went into his own city. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And look! they were bringing him a paralyzed man lying on a stretcher. On seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic: “Take courage, child! Your sins are forgiven.” <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now certain scribes said to themselves: “This fellow is blaspheming.” <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said: “Why are you thinking wicked things in your hearts? <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For instance, which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’? <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, in order for you to know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins—” then he said to the paralytic: “Get up, pick up your stretcher, and go to your home.” <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And he got up and went to his home. <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When the crowds saw this, they were struck with fear, and they glorified God, who gave such authority to men.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="pos31648"></span><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Next, while moving on from there, Jesus caught sight of a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office, and he said to him: “Be my follower.” At that he rose up and followed him. <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Later as he was dining<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> in the house, look! many tax collectors and sinners came and began dining<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> with Jesus and his disciples. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But on seeing this, the Pharisees said to his disciples: “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?” <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Hearing them, he said: “Healthy people do not need a physician, but those who are ill do. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Go, then, and learn what this means: ‘I want mercy, and not sacrifice.’ For I came to call, not righteous people, but sinners.”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="pos32325"></span><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then John’s disciples came to him and asked: “Why do we and the Pharisees practice fasting but your disciples do not fast?” <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At this Jesus said to them: “The friends of the bridegroom have no reason to mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, do they? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Nobody sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old outer garment, for the new piece pulls away from the garment and the tear becomes worse. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins. If they do, then the wineskins burst and the wine spills out and the wineskins are ruined. But people put new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved.”</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="pos33051"></span><span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> While he was telling them these things, look! a certain ruler who had approached did obeisance<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> to him, saying: “By now my daughter must be dead, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will come to life.”</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then Jesus got up and, with his disciples, followed him. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And look! a woman suffering for 12 years from a flow of blood approached from behind and touched the fringe of his outer garment, <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> for she kept saying to herself: “If I only touch his outer garment, I will get well.” <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jesus turned around and, noticing her, said: “Take courage, daughter! Your faith has made you well.” And from that hour the woman was made well.</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When, now, he came into the ruler’s house and caught sight of the flute players and the crowd making a commotion, <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Jesus said: “Leave the place, for the little girl did not die but is sleeping.” At this they began to laugh at him scornfully. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> As soon as the crowd had been sent outside, he went in and took hold of her hand, and the little girl got up. <span id="page1317" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1317" data-before-text="1317"></span><span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Of course, the talk about this spread into all that region.</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos34163"></span><span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As Jesus moved on from there, two blind men followed him, shouting out: “Have mercy on us, Son of David.” <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> After he had gone into the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus asked them: “Do you have faith that I can do this?” They answered him: “Yes, Lord.” <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then he touched their eyes, saying: “According to your faith let it happen to you.” <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And their eyes received sight. Moreover, Jesus sternly warned them, saying: “See that nobody gets to know it.” <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But after going outside, they made it public about him in all that region.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> When they were leaving, look! people brought him a speechless man possessed of a demon; <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> and after the demon had been expelled, the speechless man spoke. Well, the crowds were amazed and said: “Never has anything like this been seen in Israel.” <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But the Pharisees were saying: “It is by the ruler of the demons that he expels the demons.”</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="pos35095"></span><span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And Jesus set out on a tour of all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the good news of the Kingdom and curing every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity. <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> On seeing the crowds, he felt pity for them, because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd. <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Then he said to his disciples: “Yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few. <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Therefore, beg the Master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061144-split9.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 9:10</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061144-split9.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 9:10</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061144-split9.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 9:18</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
