<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>James 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061163"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">James</a>  <a href="biblechapternav59.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav59_4.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos8983"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>What is the source of the wars and fights among you? Do they not originate from your fleshly desires that carry on a conflict within you?<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You desire, and yet you do not have. You go on murdering and coveting, and yet you are not able to obtain. You go on fighting and waging war. You do not have because of your not asking. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When you do ask, you do not receive because you are asking <span id="page1619" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1619" data-before-text="1619"></span>for a wrong purpose, so that you may spend it on your fleshly desires.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Adulteresses,<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever, therefore, wants to be a friend of the world is making himself an enemy of God. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Or do you think that for no reason the scripture says: “The spirit that has taken up residence within us keeps enviously longing”? <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, the undeserved kindness that He gives is greater. So it says: “God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.”</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos9925"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Therefore, subject yourselves to God; but oppose the Devil, and he will flee from you. <span id="pos10018"></span><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Draw close to God, and he will draw close to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you indecisive ones. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Give way to misery and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into despair. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Humble yourselves in the eyes of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> and he will exalt you.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Stop speaking against one another, brothers. Whoever speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against law and judges law. Now if you judge law, you are not a doer of law but a judge. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> There is only one who is Lawgiver and Judge, the one who is able to save and to destroy. But you, who are you to be judging your neighbor?</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos10695"></span><span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Come, now, you who say: “Today or tomorrow we will travel to this city and will spend a year there, and we will do business and make some profit,” <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> whereas you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. For you are a mist that appears for a little while and then disappears. <span id="pos10992"></span><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Instead, you should say: “If Jehovah<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> wills, we will live and do this or that.” <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But now you take pride in your arrogant boasting. All such boasting is wicked. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Therefore, if someone knows how to do what is right and yet does not do it, it is a sin for him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p66" data-pid="66"><a href="1001061163-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 4:1</span></a> Lit., “in your members.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p67" data-pid="67"><a href="1001061163-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 4:4</span></a> Or “You unfaithful ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p68" data-pid="68"><a href="1001061163-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 4:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p69" data-pid="69"><a href="1001061163-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 4:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
