<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_12.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos51135"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>These were the men who came to David at Zikʹlag while he was unable to move about freely because of Saul the son of Kish, and they were among the mighty warriors who supported him in battle. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> They were armed with the bow, and they could use both the right hand and the left hand to sling stones or to shoot arrows with the bow. They were of the brothers of Saul, from Benjamin. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The head was A·hi·eʹzer, along with Joʹash, both sons of She·maʹah the Gibʹe·ath·ite; Jeʹzi·el and Pelʹet the sons of Azʹma·veth, Berʹa·cah, Jeʹhu the Anʹa·thoth·ite, <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Ish·maʹiah the Gibʹe·on·ite, a mighty warrior among the thirty and over the thirty; also Jeremiah, Ja·ha·ziʹel, Jo·haʹnan, Joʹza·bad the Ge·deʹrath·ite, <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> E·luʹzai, Jerʹi·moth, Be·a·liʹah, Shem·a·riʹah, Sheph·a·tiʹah the Harʹi·phite, <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> El·kaʹnah, Is·shiʹah, Azʹar·el, Jo·eʹzer, and Ja·shoʹbe·am, the Korʹah·ites; <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and Jo·eʹlah and Zeb·a·diʹah the sons of Je·roʹham of Geʹdor.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Some of the Gadʹites went over to David’s side at the stronghold in the wilderness; they were mighty warriors, soldiers trained for war, standing ready with the large shield and the lance, whose faces were like those of lions and who were as swift as the gazelles on the mountains. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Eʹzer was the head, O·ba·diʹah the second, E·liʹab the third, <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Mish·manʹnah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Atʹtai the sixth, Eʹli·el the seventh, <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jo·haʹnan the eighth, El·zaʹbad the ninth, <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jeremiah the tenth, Machʹban·nai the eleventh. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These were of the Gadʹites, heads of the army. The least one was equal to 100, and the greatest to 1,000. <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> These are the men who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing its banks, and they chased away all those living in the lowlands, to the east and to the west.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Some of the men of Benjamin and Judah also came to David at his stronghold. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then David went out before them and said to them: “If you have come to me in peace to help me, my heart will be united with you. But if it is to betray me to my adversaries when my hands have done no wrong, let the God of our forefathers see it and judge.” <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then the spirit came upon<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> A·maʹsai, the head of the thirty:</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sz">“We are yours, O David, and we are with you, O son of Jesʹse.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sz">Peace, peace be yours, and peace to the one helping you,</p><p data-pid="120" class="p120 sz">For your God is helping you.”</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb">So David received them and appointed them among the heads of the troops.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Some from Ma·nasʹseh also deserted to David when he came with the Phi·lisʹtines to battle against Saul; but he did not help the Phi·lisʹtines, for after consultation, the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines sent him away, saying: “He will desert to his lord Saul, and it will cost us our heads.” <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When he went to Zikʹlag, these deserted to him from Ma·nasʹseh: Adʹnah, Joʹza·bad, Je·diʹa·el, Miʹcha·el, Joʹza·bad, E·liʹhu, and Zilʹle·thai, heads of the thousands of Ma·nasʹseh. <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> They helped David against the marauder band, because all of them were mighty, courageous men, and they became chiefs in the army. <span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Day after <span id="page584" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="584" data-before-text="584"></span>day people kept coming to David to help him until it was a camp as great as the camp of God.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> This is the number of the heads of those armed for battle who came to David at Hebʹron to turn the kingship of Saul over to him according to Jehovah’s order. <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The men of Judah carrying the large shield and the lance were 6,800, armed for battle. <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Of the Simʹe·on·ites, the mighty, courageous men of the army were 7,100.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Of the Levites, 4,600. <span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Je·hoiʹa·da was the leader of the sons of Aaron, and with him were 3,700, <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> as well as Zaʹdok, a mighty and courageous young man, along with 22 chiefs from his paternal house.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Of the Benʹja·min·ites, the brothers of Saul, there were 3,000, of whom the greater number had previously been guarding the interests of the house of Saul. <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Of the Eʹphra·im·ites, there were 20,800 mighty, courageous men of fame among their paternal houses.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Of the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, there were 18,000 who had been designated by name to come to make David king. <span id="chapter12_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Of the tribe of Isʹsa·char, who understood the times and knew what Israel should do, there were 200 of their headmen, and all their brothers were under their command. <span id="chapter12_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Of Zebʹu·lun, there were 50,000 who could serve in the army, drawing up in battle formation with all the weapons of war, all joining David with undivided loyalty.<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Of Naphʹta·li, there were 1,000 chiefs, and with them were 37,000 with the large shield and the spear. <span id="chapter12_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Of the Danʹites, those drawing up in battle formation were 28,600. <span id="chapter12_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And of Ashʹer, those who could serve in the army for drawing up in battle formation were 40,000.</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> From across the Jordan, of the Reuʹben·ites, the Gadʹites, and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, there were 120,000 soldiers with all kinds of weapons of war. <span id="chapter12_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> All of these were men of war, joining together in battle line; they came with a complete heart to Hebʹron to make David king over all Israel, and also all the rest of Israel were united in wanting<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> to make David king. <span id="chapter12_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And they remained there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had made preparation for them. <span id="chapter12_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Also those near them, and even those as far as Isʹsa·char, Zebʹu·lun, and Naphʹta·li, were bringing food on donkeys, camels, mules, and cattle—provisions of flour, cakes of pressed figs and raisins, wine, oil, and cattle and sheep in great quantity, for there was rejoicing in Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061117-split12.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:18</span></a> Lit., “clothed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061117-split12.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:33</span></a> Or “all those joining David were not doublehearted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061117-split12.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:38</span></a> Lit., “were of one heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
