<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">29</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_29.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p889" data-pid="889" class="p889 sb"><span id="pos118963"></span><span id="chapter29"></span><span id="chapter29_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>29</strong> </span>These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the rest of the elders among the exiled people, the priests, the prophets, and all the people, whom Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, <span id="chapter29_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> after King Jec·o·niʹah, the queen mother,<span id="footnotesource245"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote245">*</a> the court officials, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the craftsmen and the metalworkers<span id="footnotesource246"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote246">*</a> had gone out of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter29_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He sent the letter by the hand of El·aʹsah the son of Shaʹphan and Gem·a·riʹah the son of Hil·kiʹah, whom King Zed·e·kiʹah of Judah sent to Babylon to King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon. It said:</p>
<p id="p890" data-pid="890" class="p890 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says to all the exiled people, whom I have caused to go into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, <span id="chapter29_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> ‘Build houses and live in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit. <span id="chapter29_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters. Become many there, and do not decrease. <span id="chapter29_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And seek the peace of the city to which I have exiled you, and pray in its behalf to Jehovah, for in its peace you will have peace. <span id="chapter29_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “Do not let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams that they are dreaming. <span id="chapter29_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For ‘they are prophesying lies to you in my name. I have not sent them,’ declares Jehovah.”’”</p>
<p id="p891" data-pid="891" class="p891 sb"><span id="pos120438"></span><span id="chapter29_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah says, ‘When 70 years at Babylon are fulfilled, I will turn my attention to you, and I will make good my promise by bringing you back to this place.’</p>
<p id="p892" data-pid="892" class="p892 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘For I well know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you,’ declares Jehovah, ‘thoughts of peace, and not of calamity, to give you a future and a hope. <span id="chapter29_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And you will <span id="page1078" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1078" data-before-text="1078"></span>call me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you.’</p>
<p id="p893" data-pid="893" class="p893 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘You will seek me and find me, for you will search for me with all your heart. <span id="chapter29_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And I will let you find me,’ declares Jehovah. ‘And I will gather your captives and collect you together out of all the nations and places to which I have dispersed you,’ declares Jehovah. ‘And I will bring you back to the place from which I caused you to go into exile.’</p>
<p id="p894" data-pid="894" class="p894 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “But you have said, ‘Jehovah has raised up prophets for us in Babylon.’</p>
<p id="p895" data-pid="895" class="p895 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah says to the king sitting on the throne of David and to all the people dwelling in this city, your brothers who have not gone with you into exile, <span id="chapter29_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “Here I am sending against them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence,<span id="footnotesource247"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote247">*</a> and I will make them like rotten<span id="footnotesource248"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote248">*</a> figs that are so bad they cannot be eaten.”’</p>
<p id="p896" data-pid="896" class="p896 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘And I will pursue them with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence, and I will make them an object of horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, and a curse, and an object of astonishment, something to whistle at, and a reproach among all the nations to which I disperse them, <span id="chapter29_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> because they have not listened to my words that I sent to them with my servants the prophets,’ declares Jehovah, ‘sending them again and again.’<span id="footnotesource249"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote249">*</a></p>
<p id="p897" data-pid="897" class="p897 sb">“‘But you have not listened,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p898" data-pid="898" class="p898 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Therefore, hear the word of Jehovah, all you exiled people, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon. <span id="chapter29_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says concerning Aʹhab the son of Ko·laiʹah and concerning Zed·e·kiʹah the son of Ma·a·seiʹah, who are prophesying lies to you in my name, ‘Here I am giving them into the hand of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource250"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote250">*</a> of Babylon, and he will strike them down before your eyes. <span id="chapter29_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And what happens to them will become a curse spoken by all the exiles of Judah in Babylon: “May Jehovah make you like Zed·e·kiʹah and like Aʹhab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire!” <span id="chapter29_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> for they have acted disgracefully in Israel, committing adultery with the wives of their neighbors and speaking false words in my name that I did not command them.</p>
<p id="p899" data-pid="899" class="p899 sb">“‘“I am the One who knows, and I am a witness,” declares Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p900" data-pid="900" class="p900 sb"><span id="pos123075"></span><span id="chapter29_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “And to She·maiʹah of Ne·helʹam you will say, <span id="chapter29_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> ‘This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “Because you sent in your name letters to all the people who are in Jerusalem, to Zeph·a·niʹah son of Ma·a·seiʹah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying, <span id="chapter29_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> ‘Jehovah has made you priest instead of Je·hoiʹa·da the priest to become the overseer of the house of Jehovah, to be in charge of any madman who acts like a prophet and to put him into the stocks and into the pillory;<span id="footnotesource251"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote251">*</a> <span id="chapter29_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> why, then, have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anʹa·thoth, who is acting as a prophet for you? <span id="chapter29_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> For he even sent to us at Babylon, saying: “It will be a long time! Build houses and live in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit,—”’”’”</p>
<p id="p901" data-pid="901" class="p901 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> When Zeph·a·niʹah the priest read this letter in the <span id="page1079" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1079" data-before-text="1079"></span>hearing of Jeremiah the prophet, <span id="chapter29_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying: <span id="chapter29_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Send to all the exiled people, saying, ‘This is what Jehovah says concerning She·maiʹah of Ne·helʹam: “Because She·maiʹah prophesied to you, though I did not send him, and he tried to make you trust in lies, <span id="chapter29_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> therefore this is what Jehovah says, ‘Here I am turning my attention to She·maiʹah of Ne·helʹam and his descendants. Not one man of his will survive among this people, and he will not see the good that I will do for my people,’ declares Jehovah, ‘for he has urged rebellion against Jehovah.’”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote245"><p id="p1822" data-pid="1822"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource245">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:2</span></a> Or “the lady.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote246"><p id="p1823" data-pid="1823"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource246">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:2</span></a> Or possibly, “builders of bulwarks.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote247"><p id="p1824" data-pid="1824"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource247">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:17</span></a> Or “disease.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote248"><p id="p1825" data-pid="1825"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource248">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:17</span></a> Or possibly, “burst.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote249"><p id="p1826" data-pid="1826"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource249">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:19</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and sending.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote250"><p id="p1827" data-pid="1827"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource250">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:21</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote251"><p id="p1828" data-pid="1828"><a href="1001061128-split29.xhtml#footnotesource251">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 29:26</span></a> Or “neck irons.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
