<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_26.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="pos107081"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26</strong> </span>“When eventually you enter into the land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance and you have taken possession of it and are dwelling in it, <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> you are to take some of the firstfruits of all the produce<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> of the ground, which you will gather from your land that Jehovah your God is giving you, and put them in a basket and go to the place that Jehovah your God chooses to have his name reside. <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must go to the priest who will be serving in those days and say to him, ‘Today I am reporting to Jehovah your God that I have come into the land that Jehovah swore to our forefathers to give to us.’</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “The priest will then take the basket out of your hand and deposit it before the altar of Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then you are to declare before Jehovah your God, ‘My father was a wandering<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> A·ra·maeʹan, and he went down to Egypt and resided there as a foreigner, with few in his household. But there he became a great nation, mighty and numerous. <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And the Egyptians mistreated and oppressed us and imposed harsh slavery on us. <span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So we began to cry out to Jehovah, the God of our forefathers, and Jehovah heard our voice and looked upon our affliction and our trouble and our oppression. <span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Finally Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with terrifying deeds and with signs and miracles. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then he brought us to this place and gave us <span id="page309" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="309" data-before-text="309"></span>this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. <span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now I have brought the firstfruits of the produce of the ground that Jehovah has given me.’</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb">“You must deposit it before Jehovah your God and bow down before Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You will then rejoice over all the good that Jehovah your God has given you and your household, you and the Levite and the foreign resident who is among you.</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="pos108893"></span><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “When you finish tithing the entire tenth of your produce in the third year, the year of the tenth, you will give it to the Levite, the foreign resident, the fatherless child,<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> and the widow, and they will eat their fill within your cities.<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You will then say before Jehovah your God, ‘I have cleared the holy portion out of my house and given it to the Levite, the foreign resident, the fatherless child, and the widow, just as you have commanded me. I have not violated or neglected your commandments. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I have not eaten of it while mourning or removed any of it while unclean or given any of it for the dead. I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah my God and have done all that you commanded me. <span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now look down from your holy dwelling, the heavens, and bless your people Israel and the land that you have given us, just as you swore to our forefathers, the land flowing with milk and honey.’</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="pos109812"></span><span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “This day Jehovah your God is commanding you to carry out these regulations and judicial decisions. You must observe them and carry them out with all your heart and all your soul.<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Today you have obtained Jehovah’s declaration that he will become your God as you walk in his ways and observe his regulations, his commandments, and his judicial decisions, and as you listen to his voice. <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And today Jehovah has obtained your declaration that you will become his people, his special property,<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> just as he has promised you, and that you will observe all his commandments <span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and that he will put you high above all the other nations that he has made, giving you praise and fame and glory as you prove yourself a people holy to Jehovah your God, just as he has promised.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p546" data-pid="546"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:2</span></a> Lit., “fruit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p547" data-pid="547"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:5</span></a> Or possibly, “perishing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p548" data-pid="548"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:12</span></a> Or “the orphan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p549" data-pid="549"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:12</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p550" data-pid="550"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p551" data-pid="551"><a href="1001061109-split26.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 26:18</span></a> Or “treasured possession.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
