<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_7.xhtml">1 - 89</a></p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="pos33444"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>On the day that Moses finished setting up the tabernacle, he anointed it and sanctified it, together with all its furnishings, the altar, and all its utensils. When he had anointed and sanctified these things, <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> the chieftains of Israel, the heads of their paternal houses, made an offering. These chieftains of the tribes who presided over the registration <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> brought before Jehovah their offering of six covered wagons and 12 oxen, a wagon for two chieftains and a bull<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> for each one; and they presented them before the tabernacle. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Moses: <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Accept these things from them, as they will be used for the service of the tent of meeting, and you should give them to the Levites, to each one as needed for his duties.”</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Moses accepted the wagons and the cattle and gave them to the Levites. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He gave two wagons and four oxen to the sons of Gerʹshon, according to what was needed for their duties; <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and he gave four wagons and eight oxen to the sons of Me·rarʹi, according to what was needed for their duties, under the direction of Ithʹa·mar the son <span id="page226" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="226" data-before-text="226"></span>of Aaron the priest. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But he did not give any to the sons of Koʹhath because their duties involved the service of the holy place, and they carried the holy things on their shoulders.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now the chieftains made their presentation at the inauguration<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> of the altar on the day it was anointed. When the chieftains presented their offering before the altar, <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Moses: “One chieftain each day, on successive days, will present his offering for the inauguration of the altar.”</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The one who presented his offering on the first day was Nahʹshon the son of Am·minʹa·dab of the tribe of Judah. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> His offering was one silver dish weighing 130 shekels<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place,<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> one gold cup<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of Nahʹshon the son of Am·minʹa·dab.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> On the second day, Ne·thanʹel the son of Zuʹar, the chieftain of Isʹsa·char, made a presentation. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He presented as his offering one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of Ne·thanʹel the son of Zuʹar.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> On the third day, the chieftain for the sons of Zebʹu·lun, E·liʹab the son of Heʹlon, <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of E·liʹab the son of Heʹlon.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> On the fourth day, the chieftain for the sons of Reuʹben, E·liʹzur the son of Shedʹe·ur, <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of E·liʹzur the son of Shedʹe·ur.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="page227" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="227" data-before-text="227"></span><span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> On the fifth day, the chieftain for the sons of Simʹe·on, She·luʹmi·el the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai, <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of She·luʹmi·el the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai.</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> On the sixth day, the chieftain for the sons of Gad, E·liʹa·saph the son of Deuʹel, <span id="chapter7_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of E·liʹa·saph the son of Deuʹel.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> On the seventh day, the chieftain for the sons of Eʹphra·im, E·lishʹa·ma the son of Am·miʹhud, <span id="chapter7_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of E·lishʹa·ma the son of Am·miʹhud.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> On the eighth day, the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nasʹseh, Ga·maʹli·el the son of Pe·dahʹzur, <span id="chapter7_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of Ga·maʹli·el the son of Pe·dahʹzur.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> On the ninth day, the chieftain for the sons of Benjamin, Abʹi·dan the son of Gid·e·oʹni, <span id="chapter7_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the <span id="page228" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="228" data-before-text="228"></span>offering of Abʹi·dan the son of Gid·e·oʹni.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> On the tenth day, the chieftain for the sons of Dan, A·hi·eʹzer the son of Am·mi·shadʹdai, <span id="chapter7_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of A·hi·eʹzer the son of Am·mi·shadʹdai.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse72"></span><strong><sup>72</sup></strong> On the 11th day, the chieftain for the sons of Ashʹer, Paʹgi·el the son of Ochʹran, <span id="chapter7_verse73"></span><strong><sup>73</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse74"></span><strong><sup>74</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse75"></span><strong><sup>75</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse76"></span><strong><sup>76</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse77"></span><strong><sup>77</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of Paʹgi·el the son of Ochʹran.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse78"></span><strong><sup>78</sup></strong> On the 12th day, the chieftain for the sons of Naphʹta·li, A·hiʹra the son of Eʹnan, <span id="chapter7_verse79"></span><strong><sup>79</sup></strong> made his offering of one silver dish weighing 130 shekels and one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; <span id="chapter7_verse80"></span><strong><sup>80</sup></strong> one gold cup weighing 10 shekels, full of incense; <span id="chapter7_verse81"></span><strong><sup>81</sup></strong> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year for a burnt offering; <span id="chapter7_verse82"></span><strong><sup>82</sup></strong> one young goat for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse83"></span><strong><sup>83</sup></strong> and for a communion sacrifice, two cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs each a year old. This was the offering of A·hiʹra the son of Eʹnan.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse84"></span><strong><sup>84</sup></strong> This was the inauguration offering of the altar from the chieftains of Israel when it was anointed: 12 silver dishes, 12 silver bowls, 12 gold cups; <span id="chapter7_verse85"></span><strong><sup>85</sup></strong> each silver dish weighing 130 shekels and each bowl weighing 70 shekels, all the silver of the vessels amounting to 2,400 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place; <span id="chapter7_verse86"></span><strong><sup>86</sup></strong> the 12 gold cups full of incense each weighed 10 shekels by the standard shekel of the holy place, all the gold of the cups amounting to 120 shekels. <span id="chapter7_verse87"></span><strong><sup>87</sup></strong> All the cattle for the burnt offering were 12 bulls, 12 rams, 12 male lambs each a year old and their grain offerings, and 12 young goats for a sin offering; <span id="chapter7_verse88"></span><strong><sup>88</sup></strong> and all the cattle of the communion sacrifice amounted to 24 bulls, 60 rams, 60 male goats, and 60 male lambs each a year old. This was the inauguration offering of the altar after it was anointed.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse89"></span><strong><sup>89</sup></strong> Whenever Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with God,<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> he would hear the voice conversing with him from above the cover of the ark of the Testimony, from between the two cherubs; and God would speak to him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:3</span></a> Or “an ox.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:10</span></a> Or “dedication.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:13</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:13</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p456" data-pid="456"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:14</span></a> Or “small bowl.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p457" data-pid="457"><a href="1001061108-split7.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 7:89</span></a> Lit., “him.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
