<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Philippians 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061154"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Philippians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav50.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav50_2.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos4126"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>If, then, there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any spiritual fellowship,<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> if any tender affection and compassion, <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely united,<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> having the one thought in mind. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> consider others superior to you, <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos4611"></span><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Keep this mental attitude in you that was also in Christ Jesus, <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> who, although he was existing in God’s form, did not even consider the idea of trying to be equal to God. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> No, but he emptied himself and took a slave’s form and became human.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> More than that, when he came as a man,<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, yes, death on a torture stake.<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For this very reason, God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend—of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground— <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos5371"></span><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Consequently, my beloved ones, just as you have always obeyed, not only during my presence but now much more readily during my absence, keep working out your own salvation with fear and trembling. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For God is the one who for the sake of his good pleasure energizes you, giving you both the desire and the power to act. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Keep doing all things free from murmuring and arguments, <span id="pos5769"></span><span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> so that you may come to be blameless and innocent, children of God without a blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you are shining as illuminators in the world, <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> keeping a tight grip on the word of life. Then I may have reason for rejoicing in Christ’s day, knowing that I did not run in vain or work hard in vain. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> However, even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and the holy service<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> to which your faith has led you, I am glad and I rejoice with all of you. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> In the same way, you also should be glad and rejoice with me.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos6382"></span><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Now I am hoping in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, so that I may be encouraged when I receive news about you. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For I have no one else of a disposition like his who will genuinely care for your concerns. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For all the others are seeking their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. <span id="page1573" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1573" data-before-text="1573"></span><span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But you know the proof he gave of himself, that like a child with a father he slaved with me to advance the good news. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Therefore, he is the one I am hoping to send just as soon as I see how things turn out for me. <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Indeed, I am confident in the Lord that I myself will also come soon.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But for now I consider it necessary to send to you E·paph·ro·diʹtus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your envoy and personal servant for my need, <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> since he is longing to see all of you and is depressed because you heard he had fallen sick. <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Indeed, he did fall sick nearly to the point of death; but God had mercy on him, in fact, not only on him but also on me, so that I should not have one grief after another. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Therefore, I am sending him with the greatest urgency, so that when you see him you may again rejoice and I may also be less anxious. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So give him the customary welcome in the Lord with all joy, and keep holding men of that sort dear, <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> because he nearly died on account of the work of Christ,<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> risking his life<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> in order to make up for your not being here to render personal service to me.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p32" data-pid="32"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:1</span></a> Lit., “any sharing of spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p33" data-pid="33"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:2</span></a> Or “being joined together in soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p34" data-pid="34"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:3</span></a> Or “lowliness of mind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:7</span></a> Lit., “came to be in the likeness of men.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:8</span></a> Lit., “when he was found in appearance as a man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:8</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p38" data-pid="38"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:17</span></a> Or “the public service.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p39" data-pid="39"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:30</span></a> Or possibly, “of the Lord’s work.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p40" data-pid="40"><a href="1001061154-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 2:30</span></a> Or “exposing his soul to danger.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
