<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 48</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">48</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_48.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p436" data-pid="436" class="p436 sb"><span id="pos200948"></span><span id="chapter48"></span><span id="chapter48_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>48</strong> </span>After these things, Joseph was told: “Look, your father is getting weak.” At that he took his two sons Ma·nasʹseh and Eʹphra·im with him. <span id="chapter48_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then Jacob was told: “Here your son Joseph has come to you.” So Israel gathered his strength and sat up on his bed. <span id="chapter48_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And Jacob said to Joseph:</p>
<p id="p437" data-pid="437" class="p437 sb">“God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Caʹnaan and blessed me. <span id="chapter48_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And he said to me, ‘I am making you fruitful, and I will make you many, and I will transform you into a congregation of peoples, and I will give this land to your offspring<span id="footnotesource336"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote336">*</a> after you as a lasting possession.’ <span id="chapter48_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now your two sons who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt are mine. Eʹphra·im and Ma·nasʹseh will become mine just as Reuʹben and Simʹe·on are mine. <span id="chapter48_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But the children born to you after them will become yours. They will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. <span id="chapter48_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> As for me, when I was coming from Padʹdan, Rachel died alongside me in the land of Caʹnaan, while there was yet a good stretch of land before coming to Ephʹrath. So I buried her there on the way to Ephʹrath, that is, Bethʹle·hem.”</p>
<p id="p438" data-pid="438" class="p438 sb"><span id="chapter48_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then Israel saw Joseph’s sons and asked: “Who are these?” <span id="chapter48_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So Joseph said to his father: “They are my sons whom God has given me in this place.” At this he said: “Bring them to me, please, so that I may bless them.” <span id="chapter48_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now the eyes of Israel were failing from age, and he was unable to see. So Joseph brought them close to him, and he kissed them and embraced them. <span id="chapter48_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Israel said to Joseph: “I never imagined I would see your face, but here God has also let me see your offspring.”<span id="footnotesource337"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote337">*</a> <span id="chapter48_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Joseph then removed them from Israel’s knees, and he bowed down with his face to the ground.</p>
<p id="p439" data-pid="439" class="p439 sb"><span id="pos202695"></span><span id="chapter48_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Joseph now took the two of them, Eʹphra·im with his right hand to Israel’s left and Ma·nasʹseh with his left hand to Israel’s right, and brought them close to him. <span id="chapter48_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, Israel put out his right hand and placed it on Eʹphra·im’s head, although he was the younger, and he placed his left hand on Ma·nasʹseh’s head. He purposely laid his hands this way, since Ma·nasʹseh was the firstborn. <span id="chapter48_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then he blessed Joseph and said:</p>
<p id="p440" data-pid="440" class="p440 sz">“The true God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked,</p><p data-pid="440" class="p440 sz">The true God who has been shepherding me during all my life until this day,</p><p data-pid="440" class="p440 sl"><span id="chapter48_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The angel who has been recovering me from all calamity, bless the boys.</p>
<p id="p441" data-pid="441" class="p441 sz">Let my name be called upon them and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac,</p><p data-pid="441" class="p441 sz">Let them increase to a multitude in the earth.”</p>
<p id="p442" data-pid="442" class="p442 sb"><span id="chapter48_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When Joseph saw that his father kept his right hand placed on Eʹphra·im’s head, it was displeasing to him, so he tried to take hold of his father’s hand to move it from Eʹphra·im’s head to Ma·nasʹseh’s head. <span id="chapter48_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Joseph said to his father: “Not <span id="page109" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="109" data-before-text="109"></span>so, my father, because this is the firstborn. Put your right hand on his head.” <span id="chapter48_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But his father kept refusing and said: “I know it, my son, I know it. He too will become a people, and he too will become great. Nevertheless, his younger brother will become greater than he will, and his offspring<span id="footnotesource338"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote338">*</a> will become the full equivalent of nations.” <span id="chapter48_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So he continued to bless them on that day, saying:</p>
<p id="p443" data-pid="443" class="p443 sz">“Let Israel mention you when they pronounce blessings, saying,</p><p data-pid="443" class="p443 sz">‘May God make you like Eʹphra·im and like Ma·nasʹseh.’”</p>
<p id="p444" data-pid="444" class="p444 sb">Thus he kept putting Eʹphra·im before Ma·nasʹseh.</p>
<p id="p445" data-pid="445" class="p445 sb"><span id="chapter48_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Israel said to Joseph: “Look, I am dying, but God will certainly continue with you and return you to the land of your forefathers. <span id="chapter48_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> As for me, I do give you one portion of land<span id="footnotesource339"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote339">*</a> more than to your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amʹor·ites with my sword and my bow.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote336"><p id="p803" data-pid="803"><a href="1001061105-split48.xhtml#footnotesource336">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 48:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote337"><p id="p804" data-pid="804"><a href="1001061105-split48.xhtml#footnotesource337">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 48:11</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote338"><p id="p805" data-pid="805"><a href="1001061105-split48.xhtml#footnotesource338">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 48:19</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote339"><p id="p806" data-pid="806"><a href="1001061105-split48.xhtml#footnotesource339">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 48:22</span></a> Or “one slope of land.” Lit., “one shoulder.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
