<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_20.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos85106"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>“If you go to war against your enemies and you see their horses and chariots and troops that outnumber yours, do not be afraid of them, for Jehovah your God who brought you up out of the land of Egypt is with you. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> When you are about to go into battle, the priest should approach and address the people. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He should tell them, ‘Hear, O Israel, you are about to do battle with your enemies. Do not be fainthearted. Do not be afraid or be terrified or tremble because of them, <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> for Jehovah your God is marching with you to fight for you against your enemies and to save you.’</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos85694"></span><span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “The officers too should tell the people, ‘Who has built a new house and has not inaugurated it? Let him return to his house. Otherwise, he may die in the battle and another man will inaugurate it. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And who has planted a vineyard and not begun to use it? Let him go and return to his house. Otherwise, he may die in the battle and another man will begin to use it. <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And who has become engaged to a woman and has not married her? Let him go and return to his house. Otherwise, he might die in the battle and another man will marry her.’ <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The officers should also ask the people, ‘Who is fearful and fainthearted? He should return to his house, so that he may not cause his brothers to lose heart as he has.’<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When the officers have finished speaking to the people, they should appoint chiefs of the armies to lead the people.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “If you approach a city to fight against it, you should also announce to it terms of peace. <span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If it gives a peaceful answer to you and opens up to you, all the people found there will become yours for forced labor, and they will serve you. <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But if it refuses to make peace with you and instead goes <span id="page302" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="302" data-before-text="302"></span>to war with you, you should besiege it, <span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and Jehovah your God will certainly give it into your hand, and you must strike down every male in it with the sword. <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, the women, the children, the livestock, and everything that is in the city, all its spoil, you may plunder for yourself, and you will eat the spoil of your enemies, which Jehovah your God has given to you.</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “That is what you will do to all the cities very far away from you that are not of the cities of these nearby nations. <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But in the cities of these peoples, which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, you must not allow any breathing thing to live. <span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Instead, you should devote them completely to destruction, the Hitʹtites, the Amʹor·ites, the Caʹnaan·ites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites, just as Jehovah your God has commanded you; <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> so that they may not teach you to follow all their detestable practices that they have done for their gods, causing you to sin against Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “If you lay siege to a city in order to capture it and you have been fighting against it for many days, you should not destroy its trees by wielding an ax against them. You may eat from them, but you should not cut them down. For should you besiege a tree of the field as you would a man? <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You may destroy only a tree that you know is not used for food. You may cut it down and build siegeworks against the city that is making war against you, until it falls.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p518" data-pid="518"><a href="1001061109-split20.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 20:8</span></a> Or “cause the heart of his brothers to melt as his own heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
