<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_20.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos98128"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>When the uproar had subsided, Paul sent for the disciples, and after he had encouraged them and said farewell, he began his journey to Mac·e·doʹni·a. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> After going through those regions and giving many words of encouragement to the ones there, he arrived in Greece. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He spent three months there, but because a plot was hatched against him by the Jews when he was about to set sail for Syria, he made up his mind to return through Mac·e·doʹni·a. <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He was accompanied by Sopʹa·ter the son of Pyrʹrhus of Be·roeʹa, Ar·is·tarʹchus and Se·cunʹdus of the Thes·sa·loʹni·ans, Gaʹius of Derʹbe, Timothy and, from the province of Asia, Tychʹi·cus and Trophʹi·mus. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> These men went on ahead and were waiting for us in Troʹas; <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> but we put out to sea from Phi·lipʹpi after the days of the Unleavened Bread, and within five days we came to them in Troʹas, and there we spent seven days.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="pos99023"></span><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to have a meal, Paul began addressing them, as he was going to depart the next day; and he prolonged his speech until midnight. <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So there were quite a few lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Seated at the window, a young man named Euʹty·chus sank into a deep sleep while Paul kept talking, and overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was picked up dead. <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But Paul went downstairs, threw himself on him and embraced him, and said: “Stop making a commotion, for he is alive.”<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He then went upstairs and began the meal<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> and ate. He continued conversing for quite a while, until daybreak, and then he departed. <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So they took the boy away alive and were comforted beyond measure.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="pos99828"></span><span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> We now went ahead to the ship and set sail for Asʹsos, where we were intending to take Paul aboard, for after giving instructions to this effect, he was intending to go there on foot. <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So when he caught up with us in Asʹsos, we took him aboard and went to Mit·y·leʹne. <span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And sailing away from there the next day, we arrived off Chiʹos, but the day after that, we touched at Saʹmos, and on the following day, we arrived at Mi·leʹtus. <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Paul had decided to sail past Ephʹe·sus so as not to spend any time in the province of Asia, for he was hurrying to get to Jerusalem on the day of the Festival of Pentecost if he possibly could.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos100481"></span><span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> However, from Mi·leʹtus he sent word to Ephʹe·sus and called for the elders of the congregation. <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When they came to him, he said to them: “You well know how I conducted myself among you from the first day I stepped into the province of Asia, <span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> slaving for the Lord with all humility<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> and with tears and trials that befell me by the plots of the Jews, <span id="pos100851"></span><span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> while I did not hold back from telling you any of the things that were profitable<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> nor from teaching you publicly and from house to house. <span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But I thoroughly bore witness both to Jews and to Greeks about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus. <span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And now look! bound in<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> the spirit, I am traveling to Jerusalem, although not knowing what will happen to me <span id="page1493" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1493" data-before-text="1493"></span>there, <span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> except that from city to city the holy spirit repeatedly bears witness to me, saying that imprisonment and tribulations are waiting for me. <span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Nevertheless, I do not consider my own life<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> of any importance to me,<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “And now look! I know that none of you among whom I preached the Kingdom will ever see my face again. <span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So I call you to witness this very day that I am clean from the blood of all men, <span id="chapter20_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> for I have not held back from telling you all the counsel<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> of God. <span id="chapter20_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Pay attention to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the holy spirit has appointed you overseers, to shepherd the congregation of God, which he purchased with the blood of his own Son. <span id="chapter20_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> I know that after my going away oppressive wolves will enter in among you and will not treat the flock with tenderness, <span id="chapter20_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and from among you yourselves men will rise and speak twisted things to draw away the disciples after themselves.</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Therefore keep awake, and bear in mind that for three years, night and day, I never stopped admonishing each one of you with tears. <span id="chapter20_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And now I entrust you to God and to the word of his undeserved kindness, which word can build you up and give you the inheritance among all the sanctified ones. <span id="chapter20_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> I have desired no man’s silver or gold or clothing. <span id="chapter20_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> You yourselves know that these hands have provided for my own needs and the needs of those with me. <span id="pos102841"></span><span id="chapter20_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> I have shown you in all things that by working hard in this way, you must assist those who are weak and must keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, when he himself said: ‘There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.’”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And when he had said these things, he knelt down with all of them and prayed. <span id="chapter20_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Indeed, quite a bit of weeping broke out among them all, and they embraced Paul<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> and affectionately<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> kissed him, <span id="chapter20_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> for they were especially pained at the word he had spoken that they would not see his face anymore. Then they accompanied him to the ship.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p id="p395" data-pid="395"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:10</span></a> Or “for his soul is in him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p id="p396" data-pid="396"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:11</span></a> Lit., “broke the bread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p id="p397" data-pid="397"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:19</span></a> Or “lowliness of mind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p id="p398" data-pid="398"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:20</span></a> Or “for your good.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p id="p399" data-pid="399"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:22</span></a> Or “compelled by.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:24</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p401" data-pid="401"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:24</span></a> Or “of any value to me whatsoever.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p402" data-pid="402"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:27</span></a> Or “the whole purpose.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p403" data-pid="403"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:37</span></a> Lit., “fell upon Paul’s neck.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p404" data-pid="404"><a href="1001061148-split20.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 20:37</span></a> Or “tenderly.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
