<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_8.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos34044"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Then the men of Eʹphra·im said to him: “What have you done to us? Why did you not call us when you went to fight against Midʹi·an?” And they quarreled bitterly with him. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But he said to them: “What have I done compared with you? Are not the gleanings of Eʹphra·im better than the grape harvest of Abi-eʹzer? <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> It was into your hand that God gave Midʹi·an’s princes Oʹreb and Zeʹeb, and what have I done compared with you?” When he spoke this way,<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> they calmed down.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a></p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos34523"></span><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on then came to the Jordan and crossed it. He and the 300 men with him were tired, but they kept up the pursuit. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he said to the men of Sucʹcoth: “Please give loaves of bread to the people following me, for they are tired and I am chasing after Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna, the kings of Midʹi·an.” <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But the princes of Sucʹcoth said: “Are the palms of Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna already in your hand so that we should give bread to your army?” <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At this Gidʹe·on said: “Just for that, when Jehovah gives Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna into my hand, I will give you a thrashing with the thorns and the briars of the wilderness.” <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And he went up from there to Pe·nuʹel and made the same request, but the men of Pe·nuʹel gave him the same answer as the men of Sucʹcoth. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So he said also to the men of Pe·nuʹel: “When I return in peace, I will pull down this tower.”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna were in Karʹkor with their armies, about 15,000 men. These were all who remained of the entire army of the Easterners, for 120,000 men armed with swords had fallen. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on continued up by the way of the tent dwellers east of Noʹbah and Jogʹbe·hah and attacked the camp, which was off guard. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna fled, he pursued and captured the two Midʹi·an·ite kings, Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna, throwing the whole camp into a panic.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="page371" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="371" data-before-text="371"></span><span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on the son of Joʹash then returned from the war by way of the pass that goes up to Heʹres. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> En route he captured and interrogated a young man from Sucʹcoth. So the young man wrote out for him the names of the princes and elders of Sucʹcoth, 77 men. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> With that he went to the men of Sucʹcoth and said: “Here are Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna about whom you taunted me, saying, ‘Are the palms of Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna already in your hand so that we should give bread to your exhausted men?’” <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then he took the elders of the city and with thorns and briars of the wilderness, he taught the men of Sucʹcoth a lesson. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And he pulled down the tower of Pe·nuʹel and killed the men of the city.</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He asked Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna: “What sort of men did you kill in Taʹbor?” To this they said: “They were like you, each one looked like the son of a king.” <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> At that he said: “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As surely as Jehovah lives, if you had spared their lives, I would not have to kill you.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then he said to Jeʹther his firstborn: “Get up, kill them.” But the young man did not draw his sword; he was afraid, for he was still a young man. <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna said: “Get up yourself and slay us, for a man is judged by his mightiness.”<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> So Gidʹe·on got up and killed Zeʹbah and Zal·munʹna and took the crescent-shaped ornaments that were on the necks of their camels.</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos37322"></span><span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Later the men of Israel said to Gidʹe·on: “Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson as well, for you saved us out of the hand of Midʹi·an.” <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But Gidʹe·on said to them: “I will not rule over you, nor will my son rule over you. Jehovah is the one who will rule over you.” <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on continued: “Let me make one request of you: that each of you give me a nose ring from his spoil.” (For they had gold nose rings because they were Ishʹma·el·ites.) <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> They replied: “We will surely give them.” With that they spread out a robe and each man threw a nose ring from his spoil on it. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The weight of the gold nose rings that he had requested amounted to 1,700 gold shekels,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> besides the crescent-shaped ornaments, the pendants, the purple wool garments worn by the kings of Midʹi·an, and the necklaces from the camels.</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on made it into an ephʹod and exhibited it in his city Ophʹrah; and all Israel committed spiritual prostitution with it there, and it served as a snare to Gidʹe·on and to his household.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos38374"></span><span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Thus Midʹi·an was subdued before the Israelites, and they did not challenge them<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> again; and the land had rest<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> for 40 years in the days of Gidʹe·on.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Jer·ub·baʹal the son of Joʹash returned to his home and stayed there.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Gidʹe·on became father to 70 sons,<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> for he had many wives. <span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> His concubine in Sheʹchem also bore him a son, and he named him A·bimʹe·lech. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And Gidʹe·on the son of Joʹash died at a good old age and was buried in the tomb of Joʹash his father in Ophʹrah of the Abi-ezʹrites.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> As soon as Gidʹe·on died, the Israelites again committed <span id="page372" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="372" data-before-text="372"></span>spiritual prostitution with the Baʹals, and they appointed Baʹal-beʹrith as their god. <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The Israelites did not remember Jehovah their God, who had rescued them from the hand of all their enemies around them; <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> nor did they show loyal love toward the household of Jer·ub·baʹal, that is Gidʹe·on, in return for all the good that he had done for Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:3</span></a> Lit., “word.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:3</span></a> Lit., “their spirit relaxed from against him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:21</span></a> Or “for as a man is, so is his strength.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:26</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:28</span></a> Lit., “did not lift up their head.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:28</span></a> Or “peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061111-split8.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:30</span></a> Lit., “had 70 sons who came out from his thigh.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
