<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_13.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos67806"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Now because he knew before the festival of the Passover that his hour had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father, Jesus, having loved his own who were in the world, loved them to the end. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The evening meal was going on, and the Devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Is·carʹi·ot, the son of Simon, to betray him. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he came from God and was going to God, <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> got up from the evening meal and laid aside his outer garments. And taking a towel, he wrapped it around his waist.<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> After that he put water into a basin and started to wash the feet of the disciples and to dry them off with the towel that was wrapped around him.<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him: “Lord, are you washing my feet?” <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Jesus answered him: “What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will understand after these things.” <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Peter said to him: “You will certainly never wash my feet.” Jesus answered him: “Unless I wash you, you have no share with me.” <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Simon Peter said to him: “Lord, wash not only my feet but also my hands and my head.” <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Whoever has bathed does not need to have more than his feet washed, but is completely clean. And you men are clean, but not all of you.” <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For he knew the man who was betraying him. This is why he said: “Not all of you are clean.”</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When, now, he had washed their feet and had put his outer garments on, he again reclined at the table and said to them: “Do you understand what I have done to you? <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You address <span id="page1447" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1447" data-before-text="1447"></span>me as ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord,’ and you are correct, for I am such. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Therefore, if I, the Lord and Teacher, washed your feet, you also should<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> wash the feet of one another. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For I set the pattern for you, that just as I did to you, you should also do. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, nor is one who is sent greater than the one who sent him. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If you know these things, happy you are if you do them. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I am not talking about all of you; I know the ones I have chosen. But this was so that the scripture might be fulfilled: ‘The one who was eating my bread has lifted his heel against me.’<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> From this moment on, I am telling you before it occurs, so that when it does occur you may believe that I am he. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, whoever receives anyone I send receives me also, and whoever receives me receives also the One who sent me.”</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos70348"></span><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After saying these things, Jesus became troubled in spirit, and he bore witness, saying: “Most truly I say to you, one of you will betray me.” <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The disciples began to look at one another, being at a loss as to which one he was talking about. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> One of the disciples, the one whom Jesus loved, was reclining close to<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> Jesus. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Therefore, Simon Peter nodded to this one and said to him: “Tell us whom he is talking about.” <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So the latter leaned back on the chest of Jesus and said to him: “Lord, who is it?” <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “It is the one to whom I will give the piece of bread that I dip.” So after dipping the bread, he took it and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Is·carʹi·ot. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> After Judas took the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. So Jesus said to him: “What you are doing, do it more quickly.” <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> However, none of those reclining at the table knew why he said this to him. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Some, in fact, were thinking that since Judas was holding the money box, Jesus was telling him, “Buy what we need for the festival,” or that he should give something to the poor. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So after he received the piece of bread, he went out immediately. And it was night.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos71568"></span><span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> When, therefore, he had gone out, Jesus said: “Now the Son of man is glorified, and God is glorified in connection with him. <span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> God himself will glorify him, and he will glorify him immediately. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Little children, I am with you a little longer. You will look for me; and just as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I go you cannot come,’ I now say it also to you. <span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another. <span id="pos72064"></span><span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> By this all will know that you are my disciples—if you have love among yourselves.”</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos72156"></span><span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Simon Peter said to him: “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus answered: “Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow later.” <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Peter said to him: “Lord, why is it I cannot follow you now? I will surrender my life<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> in your behalf.” <span id="chapter13_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “Will you surrender your life<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> in my behalf? Most truly I say to you, a rooster will by no means crow until you have disowned me three times.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p219" data-pid="219"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:4</span></a> Or “girded himself.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p220" data-pid="220"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:5</span></a> Or “with which he was girded.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p221" data-pid="221"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:14</span></a> Or “you also are under obligation to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p222" data-pid="222"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:18</span></a> Or “has turned against me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p223" data-pid="223"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:23</span></a> Lit., “in the bosom of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p224" data-pid="224"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:37</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p225" data-pid="225"><a href="1001061147-split13.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 13:38</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
