<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_27.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p253" data-pid="253" class="p253 sb"><span id="pos109503"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27</strong> </span>“You will make the altar of acacia wood; it will be five cubits<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> long and five cubits wide. The altar should be square and <span id="page149" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="149" data-before-text="149"></span>three cubits high. <span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You will make horns on its four corners; the horns will be part of the altar, and you will overlay the altar with copper. <span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You will make buckets for clearing away its ashes,<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> along with shovels, bowls, forks, and fire holders, and you will make all its utensils of copper. <span id="chapter27_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You will make a grating for the altar, a network of copper, and on the network four rings of copper at its four corners. <span id="chapter27_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You will set it down below the rim of the altar, and the network will extend partway down into the altar. <span id="chapter27_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You will make poles of acacia wood for the altar and overlay them with copper. <span id="chapter27_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The poles will be inserted into the rings so that the poles are on the two sides of the altar when it is carried. <span id="chapter27_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> You will make the altar in the form of a hollow chest of planks. It should be made just as He showed you on the mountain.</p>
<p id="p254" data-pid="254" class="p254 sb"><span id="pos110500"></span><span id="chapter27_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “You will make the courtyard of the tabernacle. For the south side, facing south, the courtyard will have hanging curtains of fine twisted linen, 100 cubits long for the one side. <span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> It will have 20 pillars with 20 copper socket pedestals. The hooks of the pillars and their connectors<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> are of silver. <span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The hanging curtains for the north side will also be 100 cubits long, along with its 20 pillars and their 20 copper socket pedestals, with silver hooks and connectors<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> for the pillars. <span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> There are to be hanging curtains on the west side for 50 cubits across the width of the courtyard, with ten pillars and ten socket pedestals. <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The width of the courtyard on the east side toward the sunrise is 50 cubits. <span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> There will be 15 cubits of hanging curtains on the one side, with three pillars and three socket pedestals. <span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And for the other side, there will be 15 cubits of hanging curtains, with three pillars and three socket pedestals.</p>
<p id="p255" data-pid="255" class="p255 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “The entrance of the courtyard should have a screen<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> 20 cubits long made of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen woven together, with four pillars and their four socket pedestals. <span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> All the pillars surrounding the courtyard will have silver fasteners and silver hooks, but their socket pedestals will be of copper. <span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The courtyard is to be 100 cubits long, 50 cubits wide, and 5 cubits high, made from fine twisted linen, and it should have copper socket pedestals. <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> All the utensils and the items used in the service of the tabernacle, as well as its tent pins and all the pins of the courtyard, are to be of copper.</p>
<p id="p256" data-pid="256" class="p256 sb"><span id="pos112159"></span><span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “You are to command the Israelites to bring you pure, beaten olive oil for the lighting, in order to keep the lamps burning constantly. <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In the tent of meeting, outside the curtain that is near the Testimony, Aaron and his sons will arrange to keep the lamps lit from evening until morning before Jehovah. It is a lasting statute for all their generations to be carried out by the Israelites.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p536" data-pid="536"><a href="1001061106-split27.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 27:1</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p537" data-pid="537"><a href="1001061106-split27.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 27:3</span></a> Or “fatty ashes,” that is, ashes soaked with the fat of the sacrifices.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p538" data-pid="538"><a href="1001061106-split27.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 27:10</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p539" data-pid="539"><a href="1001061106-split27.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 27:11</span></a> Or “rings; hoops; bands” for attachments.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p540" data-pid="540"><a href="1001061106-split27.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 27:16</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
