<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_9.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="pos23684"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Even if <span id="page1534" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1534" data-before-text="1534"></span>I am not an apostle to others, I most certainly am to you! For you are the seal confirming my apostleship in the Lord.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> My defense to those who examine me is as follows: <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> We have the right<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> to eat and drink, do we not? <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> We have the right to be accompanied by a believing wife,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> as the rest of the apostles and the Lord’s brothers and Ceʹphas,<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> do we not? <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Or is it only Barʹna·bas and I who do not have the right to refrain from working for a living? <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> What soldier ever serves at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of some of the milk of the flock?</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Am I saying these things from a human viewpoint? Or does not the Law also say these things? <span id="pos24555"></span><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For it is written in the Law of Moses: “You must not muzzle a bull when it is threshing out the grain.” Is it bulls that God is concerned about? <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Or is it actually for our sakes that he says it? It was really written for our sakes, because the man who plows and the man who threshes ought to do so in the hope of receiving a share.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material support from you? <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> If other men have this rightful claim over you, do we not have it much more so? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right,<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> but we are enduring all things so that we might not in any way hinder the good news about the Christ. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Do you not know that the men performing sacred duties eat the things of the temple, and that those regularly serving at the altar receive a share from the altar? <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> In this way, too, the Lord commanded for those proclaiming the good news to live by means of the good news.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But I have not made use of a single one of these provisions. Indeed, I have not written these things so that this would be done for me, for it would be better to die than—no man will take away my grounds for boasting! <span id="pos25758"></span><span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now if I am declaring the good news, it is no reason for me to boast, for necessity is laid upon me. Really, woe to me if I do not declare the good news! <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If I do this willingly, I have a reward; but even if I do it against my will, I still have a stewardship entrusted to me. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> What, then, is my reward? That when I declare the good news, I may offer the good news without cost, to avoid abusing my authority<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> in the good news.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="pos26206"></span><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For though I am free from all people, I have made myself the slave to all, so that I may gain as many people as possible. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> To the Jews I became as a Jew in order to gain Jews; to those under law I became as under law, though I myself am not under law, in order to gain those under law. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> To those without law I became as without law, although I am not without law toward God but under law toward Christ, in order to gain those without law. <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> To the weak I became weak, in order to gain the weak. I have become all things to people of all sorts, so that I might by all possible means save some. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But I do all things for the sake of the good news, in order to share it with others.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos26920"></span><span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Do you not know that the runners in a race all run, but only one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may win it. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now everyone competing <span id="page1535" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1535" data-before-text="1535"></span>in a contest<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> exercises self-control in all things. Of course, they do it to receive a crown that can perish, but we, one that does not perish. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Therefore, the way I am running is not aimlessly; the way I am aiming my blows is so as not to be striking the air; <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> but I pummel<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> my body and lead it as a slave, so that after I have preached to others, I myself should not become disapproved<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> somehow.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p166" data-pid="166"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:4</span></a> Lit., “authority.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p167" data-pid="167"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:5</span></a> Or “a sister as a wife.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p168" data-pid="168"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:5</span></a> Also called Peter.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p169" data-pid="169"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:12</span></a> Lit., “authority.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p170" data-pid="170"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:18</span></a> Or “rights.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p171" data-pid="171"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:25</span></a> Or “every athlete.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p172" data-pid="172"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:27</span></a> Or “punish; strictly discipline.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p173" data-pid="173"><a href="1001061150-split9.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 9:27</span></a> Or “disqualified.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
