<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_6.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos18496"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>So Jehovah said to Moses: “Now you will see what I will do to Pharʹaoh. A mighty hand will force him to send them away, and a mighty hand will force him to drive them out of his land.”</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos18686"></span><span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then God said to Moses: “I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And I used to appear to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty, but with regard to my name Jehovah I did not make myself known to them. <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Caʹnaan, the land in which they lived as foreigners. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now I myself have heard the groaning of the people of Israel, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I remember my covenant.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Therefore, say to the Israelites: ‘I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and rescue you from their slavery, and I will reclaim you with an outstretched<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> arm and with <span id="page120" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="120" data-before-text="120"></span>great judgments. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And I will take you in as my people, and I will be your God, and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah your God who is bringing you out from under the burdens of Egypt. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And I will bring you into the land that I swore with an oath<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and I will give it to you as something to possess. I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Moses later gave this message to the Israelites, but they did not listen to Moses because of their discouragement and because of the harsh slavery.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Go in and tell Pharʹaoh, Egypt’s king, that he should send the Israelites away out of his land.” <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> However, Moses replied to Jehovah: “Look! The Israelites have not listened to me; how will Pharʹaoh ever listen to me, as I speak with difficulty?”<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But Jehovah again told Moses and Aaron what commands to give to the Israelites and to Pharʹaoh, Egypt’s king, in order to bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos20348"></span><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These are the heads of the house of their fathers: The sons of Reuʹben, Israel’s firstborn, were Haʹnoch, Palʹlu, Hezʹron, and Carʹmi. These are the families of Reuʹben.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The sons of Simʹe·on were Jem·uʹel, Jaʹmin, Oʹhad, Jaʹchin, Zoʹhar, and Shaʹul, the son of a Caʹnaan·ite woman. These are the families of Simʹe·on.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> These are the names of the sons of Leʹvi, according to their family descents: Gerʹshon, Koʹhath, and Me·rarʹi. The length of Leʹvi’s life was 137 years.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The sons of Gerʹshon were Libʹni and Shimʹe·i, according to their families.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The sons of Koʹhath were Amʹram, Izʹhar, Hebʹron, and Uzʹzi·el. The length of Koʹhath’s life was 133 years.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi were Mahʹli and Muʹshi.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb">These were the families of the Levites, according to their family descents.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now Amʹram took Jochʹe·bed, his father’s sister, as his wife. She bore him Aaron and Moses. The length of Amʹram’s life was 137 years.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The sons of Izʹhar were Korʹah, Neʹpheg, and Zichʹri.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The sons of Uzʹzi·el were Mishʹa·el, El·zaʹphan, and Sithʹri.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now Aaron took E·liʹshe·ba, Am·minʹa·dab’s daughter, the sister of Nahʹshon, as his wife. She bore him Naʹdab, A·biʹhu, El·e·aʹzar, and Ithʹa·mar.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The sons of Korʹah were Asʹsir, El·kaʹnah, and A·biʹa·saph. These were the families of the Korʹah·ites.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> El·e·aʹzar, Aaron’s son, took one of the daughters of Puʹti·el as his wife. She bore him Phinʹe·has.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb">These are the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites, according to their families.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> This is the Aaron and Moses to whom Jehovah said: “Bring the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, company by company.”<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> It was they who spoke to Pharʹaoh, Egypt’s king, to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt. It was this Moses and Aaron.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos22181"></span><span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> On that day when Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Jehovah told Moses: “I am Jehovah. Speak to Pharʹaoh, king of Egypt, everything I am speaking to you.” <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then Moses said before Jehovah: <span id="page121" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="121" data-before-text="121"></span>“Look! I speak with difficulty,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> so how will Pharʹaoh ever listen to me?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p406" data-pid="406"><a href="1001061106-split6.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:6</span></a> Or “a powerful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p407" data-pid="407"><a href="1001061106-split6.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:8</span></a> Lit., “I raised my hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p408" data-pid="408"><a href="1001061106-split6.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:12</span></a> Lit., “I am uncircumcised in lips.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p409" data-pid="409"><a href="1001061106-split6.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:26</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p410" data-pid="410"><a href="1001061106-split6.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:30</span></a> Lit., “I am uncircumcised in lips.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
