<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_18.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="pos69549"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Then all the assembly of the Israelites congregated at Shiʹloh, and they set up the tent of meeting there, as the land was now subdued before them. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But there were still seven tribes left of the Israelites whose inheritance had not been allotted. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Joshua said to the Israelites: “How long will you put off going in to take possession of the land that Jehovah the God of your forefathers has given you? <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Give me three men from each tribe to send out; they should go out and walk throughout the land and map it out according to their inheritance. Then they should return to me. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They must apportion it among themselves into seven shares. Judah will remain in his territory to the south, and the house of Joseph will remain in their territory to the north. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> As for you, map out the land into seven shares, and bring them here to me, and I will cast lots here for you before Jehovah our God. <span id="page348" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="348" data-before-text="348"></span><span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But the Levites will not be given a share among you, because the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance; and Gad, Reuʹben, and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh have already taken their inheritance on the east side of the Jordan, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them.”</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The men prepared to go, and Joshua commanded those who were to map out the land: “Go and walk through the land and map it out and return to me, and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah in Shiʹloh.” <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> With that the men went and traveled through the land and mapped it out by cities into seven shares, recording it in a book. After that they returned to Joshua at the camp in Shiʹloh. <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Joshua then cast lots for them in Shiʹloh before Jehovah. There Joshua apportioned the land to the Israelites by their shares.</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos71288"></span><span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The lot came up for the tribe of Benjamin by their families, and the territory of their lot was between the people of Judah and the people of Joseph. <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> On the north side, their boundary started at the Jordan, and the boundary went up to the slope of Jerʹi·cho on the north and went up on the mountain westward, and it extended to the wilderness of Beth-aʹven. <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the boundary continued from there to Luz, at the southern slope of Luz, that is, Bethʹel; the boundary went down to Atʹa·roth-adʹdar on the mountain that is south of Lower Beth-hoʹron. <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the boundary was marked at the western side and went around toward the south from the mountain that faces Beth-hoʹron to the south; it ended at Kirʹi·ath-baʹal, that is, Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim, a city of Judah. This is the western side.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The south side was from the extremity of Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim, and the boundary extended westward; it went out to the spring of the waters of Neph·toʹah. <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The boundary went down to the extremity of the mountain that faces the Valley of the Son of Hinʹnom, which is in the Valley<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> of Rephʹa·im to the north, and it went down to the Valley of Hinʹnom, to the slope of the Jebʹu·site on the south, and down to En-roʹgel. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And it was marked northward and extended to En-sheʹmesh and then out to Gel·iʹloth, which is in front of the ascent of A·dumʹmim, and it went down to the stone of Boʹhan the son of Reuʹben. <span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And it continued to the northern slope in front of the Arʹa·bah and went down to the Arʹa·bah. <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And the boundary continued to the northern slope of Beth-hogʹlah, and the boundary ended at the northern bay of the Salt Sea<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> at the southern end of the Jordan. This was the southern boundary. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the Jordan served as its boundary on the eastern side. This was the inheritance of the descendants of Benjamin by their families, according to its boundaries on all sides.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And the cities of the tribe of Benjamin by their families were: Jerʹi·cho, Beth-hogʹlah, Eʹmek-keʹziz, <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Beth-arʹa·bah, Zem·a·raʹim, Bethʹel, <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Avʹvim, Paʹrah, Ophʹrah, <span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Cheʹphar-amʹmo·ni, Ophʹni, and Geʹba—12 cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Gibʹe·on, Raʹmah, Be·erʹoth, <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Mizʹpeh, Che·phiʹrah, Moʹzah, <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Reʹkem, Irʹpe·el, Tarʹa·lah, <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Zeʹlah, Ha-eʹleph, Je·buʹsi, that is, Jerusalem, Gibʹe·ah, and Kirʹi·ath—14 cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="page349" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="349" data-before-text="349"></span>This was the inheritance of the descendants of Benjamin by their families.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061110-split18.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 18:16</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061110-split18.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 18:19</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
