<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">29</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_29.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p337" data-pid="337" class="p337 sb"><span id="pos141643"></span><span id="chapter29"></span><span id="chapter29_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>29</strong> </span>“‘And in the seventh month, on the first of the month, you should hold a holy convention. You must not do any hard work. It is a day on which you should sound the trumpet. <span id="chapter29_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You will offer as a burnt offering for a pleasing<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> aroma to Jehovah one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an eʹphah measure for the bull, two tenth measures for the ram, <span id="chapter29_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and one tenth measure for each male lamb of the seven male lambs, <span id="chapter29_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and one young male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you. <span id="chapter29_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> This is in addition to the monthly burnt offering and its grain offering and the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their <span id="page261" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="261" data-before-text="261"></span>drink offerings, according to the regular procedure for them, as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> aroma, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p338" data-pid="338" class="p338 sb"><span id="pos142524"></span><span id="chapter29_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘And on the tenth of this seventh month, you should hold a holy convention, and you must afflict yourselves.<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> You must not do any work. <span id="chapter29_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And you will present as a burnt offering to Jehovah, as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> aroma, one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old, all of them sound. <span id="chapter29_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And as their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth measures for the bull, two tenth measures for the one ram, <span id="chapter29_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> a tenth measure respectively for each male lamb of the seven male lambs, <span id="chapter29_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> as well as one young goat as a sin offering, aside from the sin offering of atonement and the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their drink offerings.</p>
<p id="p339" data-pid="339" class="p339 sb"><span id="pos143217"></span><span id="chapter29_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘And on the 15th day of the seventh month, you should hold a holy convention. You must not do any hard work, and you must celebrate a festival to Jehovah seven days. <span id="chapter29_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you will present as a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> aroma to Jehovah, 13 young bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound. <span id="chapter29_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And as their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth measures for each bull of the 13 bulls, two tenth measures for each ram of the 2 rams, <span id="chapter29_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and a tenth measure for each male lamb of the 14 male lambs, <span id="chapter29_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> as well as one young goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p340" data-pid="340" class="p340 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘And on the second day, 12 young bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> as well as one young goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their drink offerings.</p>
<p id="p341" data-pid="341" class="p341 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “‘And on the third day, 11 bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p342" data-pid="342" class="p342 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘And on the fourth day, 10 bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> as well as one young goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p343" data-pid="343" class="p343 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘And on the fifth day, 9 bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p344" data-pid="344" class="p344 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “‘And on the sixth day, 8 bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male <span id="page262" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="262" data-before-text="262"></span>lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offerings.</p>
<p id="p345" data-pid="345" class="p345 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “‘And on the seventh day, 7 bulls, 2 rams, and 14 male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure for them, <span id="chapter29_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p346" data-pid="346" class="p346 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “‘On the eighth day, you should hold a solemn assembly. You should not do any hard work. <span id="chapter29_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> You will present as a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> aroma to Jehovah, one bull, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old, all of them sound, <span id="chapter29_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, the ram, and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure, <span id="chapter29_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering, aside from the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p347" data-pid="347" class="p347 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> “‘These you will offer to Jehovah at your seasonal festivals, in addition to your vow offerings and your voluntary offerings as your burnt offerings and your grain offerings and your drink offerings and your communion sacrifices.’” <span id="chapter29_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Moses told the Israelites everything that Jehovah had commanded him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p608" data-pid="608"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:2</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p609" data-pid="609"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:6</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p610" data-pid="610"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:7</span></a> Or “your souls.” To “afflict oneself” is generally understood to mean various forms of self-denial, including fasting.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p611" data-pid="611"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:8</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p612" data-pid="612"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:13</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p613" data-pid="613"><a href="1001061108-split29.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 29:36</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
