<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_4.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos11659"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>After this I saw, and look! an opened door in heaven, and the first voice that I heard speaking with me was like a trumpet, saying: “Come up here, and I will show you the things that must take place.” <span id="pos11862"></span><span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> After this I immediately came to be in the power of the spirit, and look! a throne was in its position in heaven, and someone was seated on the throne. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And the One seated had the appearance of a jasper stone and a sardius stone,<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> and all around the throne was a rainbow like an emerald in appearance.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos12174"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> All around the throne were 24 thrones, and on these thrones I saw seated 24 elders dressed in white garments, and on their heads golden crowns. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> From the throne were coming lightning and voices and thunders; and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, and these mean the seven spirits of God. <span id="pos12495"></span><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Before the throne was something resembling a glassy sea, like crystal.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb">In the midst of the throne<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> and around the throne were four living creatures that were full of eyes in front and behind. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The first living creature was like a lion, and the second living creature was like a young bull, and the third living creature had a face like a man’s, and the fourth living creature was like a flying eagle. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> As for the four living creatures, each one of them had six wings; they were full of eyes all around and underneath. And continuously, day and night, they say: “Holy, holy, holy is Jehovah<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is coming.”</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanksgiving to the One seated on the throne, the One who lives forever and ever, <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> the 24 elders fall down before the One seated on the throne and worship the One who lives forever and ever, and they cast their crowns before the throne, saying: <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “You are worthy, Jehovah<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things, and because of your will they came into existence and were created.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p169" data-pid="169"><a href="1001061170-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 4:3</span></a> Or “a precious red-colored stone.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p170" data-pid="170"><a href="1001061170-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 4:6</span></a> Or “In the middle with the throne.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p171" data-pid="171"><a href="1001061170-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 4:8</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p172" data-pid="172"><a href="1001061170-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 4:11</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
