<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_24.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p836" data-pid="836" class="p836 sb"><span id="page1071" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1071" data-before-text="1071"></span><span id="pos99493"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>Then Jehovah showed me two baskets of figs set before the temple of Jehovah, after King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> of Babylon had carried into exile Jec·o·niʹah<span id="footnotesource212"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote212">*</a> son of Je·hoiʹa·kim, the king of Judah, along with the princes of Judah, the craftsmen, and the metalworkers;<span id="footnotesource213"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote213">*</a> he took them from Jerusalem to Babylon. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> One basket had very good figs, like early figs, but the other basket had very bad figs, so bad that they could not be eaten.</p>
<p id="p837" data-pid="837" class="p837 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Jehovah then asked me: “What do you see, Jeremiah?” So I said: “Figs; the good figs are very good, but the bad ones are very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten.”</p>
<p id="p838" data-pid="838" class="p838 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying: <span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘Like these good figs, so I will regard in a good way the exiles of Judah, whom I have sent away from this place to the land of the Chal·deʹans. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> I will keep my eye on them for their good, and I will cause them to return to this land. I will build them up, and I will not tear down; I will plant them, and I will not uproot. <span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And I will give them a heart to know me, that I am Jehovah. They will become my people, and I will become their God, for they will return to me with all their heart.</p>
<p id="p839" data-pid="839" class="p839 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘But concerning the bad figs that are so bad they cannot be eaten, this is what Jehovah says: “So I will regard King Zed·e·kiʹah of Judah, his princes, the remnant of Jerusalem who are left in this land, and those who are dwelling in the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I will make them an object of horror and calamity to all the kingdoms of the earth, a reproach, a proverbial saying, a cause for ridicule, and a curse in all the places to which I disperse them. <span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And I will send against them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence,<span id="footnotesource214"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote214">*</a> until they have perished from the land that I gave to them and to their forefathers.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p1788" data-pid="1788"><a href="1001061128-split24.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 24:1</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote212"><p id="p1789" data-pid="1789"><a href="1001061128-split24.xhtml#footnotesource212">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 24:1</span></a> Also called Jehoiachin and Coniah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote213"><p id="p1790" data-pid="1790"><a href="1001061128-split24.xhtml#footnotesource213">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 24:1</span></a> Or possibly, “builders of bulwarks.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote214"><p id="p1791" data-pid="1791"><a href="1001061128-split24.xhtml#footnotesource214">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 24:10</span></a> Or “disease.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
