<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_1.xhtml">1 - 54</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page215" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="215" data-before-text="215"></span><strong>NUMBERS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos49"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Siʹnai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year of their coming out of the land of Egypt. He said: <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Take a census of the whole assembly of the Israelites<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> individually<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> according to their families, according to their paternal houses, according to the count of the names of all the males. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You and Aaron are to register by their companies<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> all those from 20 years old and up who can serve in the army in Israel.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Take with you one man from each tribe; each one is to be a head of his paternal house. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> These are the names of the men who will stand with you: of Reuʹben, E·liʹzur the son of Shedʹe·ur; <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> of Simʹe·on, She·luʹmi·el the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai; <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> of Judah, Nahʹshon the son of Am·minʹa·dab; <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> of Isʹsa·char, Ne·thanʹel the son of Zuʹar; <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> of Zebʹu·lun, E·liʹab the son of Heʹlon; <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> of the sons of Joseph: from Eʹphra·im, E·lishʹa·ma the son of Am·miʹhud; from Ma·nasʹseh, Ga·maʹli·el the son of Pe·dahʹzur; <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> of Benjamin, Abʹi·dan the son of Gid·e·oʹni; <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> of Dan, A·hi·eʹzer the son of Am·mi·shadʹdai; <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> of Ashʹer, Paʹgi·el the son of Ochʹran; <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> of Gad, E·liʹa·saph the son of Deuʹel; <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> of Naphʹta·li, A·hiʹra the son of Eʹnan. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> These are the ones summoned from the assembly. They are the chieftains of the tribes of their fathers, the heads of the thousands of Israel.”</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by name. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They gathered all the assembly on the first day of the second month, so that they might be registered individually by name, by family, and by their paternal houses, from 20 years old and up, <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. So he registered them in the wilderness of Siʹnai.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The sons of Reuʹben, the descendants of Israel’s firstborn, were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted individually, <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Reuʹben was 46,500.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The descendants of Simʹe·on were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted individually, <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Simʹe·on was 59,300.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The descendants of Gad were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Gad was 45,650.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The descendants of Judah were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Judah was 74,600.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The descendants of Isʹsa·char were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Isʹsa·char was 54,400.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The descendants of Zebʹu·lun were listed by name, by <span id="page216" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="216" data-before-text="216"></span>family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Zebʹu·lun was 57,400.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The descendants of Joseph through Eʹphra·im were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Eʹphra·im was 40,500.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The descendants of Ma·nasʹseh were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh was 32,200.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The descendants of Benjamin were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Benjamin was 35,400.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> The descendants of Dan were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Dan was 62,700.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> The descendants of Ashʹer were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Ashʹer was 41,500.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> The descendants of Naphʹta·li were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, <span id="chapter1_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> and the number registered of the tribe of Naphʹta·li was 53,400.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> These were registered by Moses together with Aaron and the 12 chieftains of Israel, each representing his paternal house. <span id="chapter1_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> All the Israelites from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army in Israel were registered by their paternal house, <span id="chapter1_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> and the total number registered was 603,550.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos5227"></span><span id="chapter1_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> But the Levites were not registered in among them by the tribe of their fathers. <span id="chapter1_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> So Jehovah told Moses: <span id="chapter1_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> “Only the tribe of Leʹvi you are not to register, and you should not include the number of them along with the other Israelites. <span id="chapter1_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> You should appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the Testimony and over all its utensils and over everything that belongs to it. They will carry the tabernacle and all its utensils, and they will minister at it, and they are to camp around the tabernacle. <span id="chapter1_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Whenever the tabernacle is to be moved, the Levites should take it down; and when the tabernacle is to be reassembled, the Levites should set it up; and any unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> who comes near should be put to death.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos5983"></span><span id="chapter1_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> “Each Israelite should set up his tent in his assigned camp, each man according to his three-tribe division<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> by their companies.<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> And the Levites should encamp around the tabernacle of the Testimony, so that no indignation may arise against the assembly of the Israelites; and the Levites must be <span id="page217" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="217" data-before-text="217"></span>responsible for the care of<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> the tabernacle of the Testimony.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> The people of Israel did all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. They did just so.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p404" data-pid="404"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:2</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p405" data-pid="405"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:2</span></a> Or “head by head of them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p406" data-pid="406"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:3</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p407" data-pid="407"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:51</span></a> Lit., “any stranger,” that is, a non-Levite.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p408" data-pid="408"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:52</span></a> Or “by his standard (banner).”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p409" data-pid="409"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:52</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p410" data-pid="410"><a href="1001061108.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 1:53</span></a> Or “for guarding; for carrying out their service at.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
