<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_27.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb"><span id="pos98426"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27</strong> </span>Now when Isaac was old and his eyes were too weak to see, he called Eʹsau his older son to him and said: “My son!” He replied: “Here I am!” <span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he went on to say: “I have now grown old. I do not know the day of my death. <span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So at this time take, please, your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt some wild game for me. <span id="chapter27_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then make the kind of tasty dish that I am fond of and bring it to me. Then I will eat it so that I<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> may bless you before I die.”</p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> However, Re·bekʹah was listening while Isaac spoke to Eʹsau his son. And Eʹsau went out into the field to hunt game and to bring it in. <span id="chapter27_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And Re·bekʹah said to Jacob her son: “I just heard your father speaking to your brother Eʹsau, saying, <span id="chapter27_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> ‘Bring me some game and make me a tasty dish. Then let me eat so that I may bless you before Jehovah before my death.’ <span id="chapter27_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And now, my son, listen carefully and do what I am instructing you. <span id="chapter27_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Go, please, to the herd and get me two of the best young goats from there so that I may prepare from them a tasty dish for your father, just the way he likes it. <span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then take it to your father to eat, in order that he may bless you before his death.”</p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jacob said to his mother Re·bekʹah: “But Eʹsau my brother is a hairy man, and my skin is smooth. <span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> What if my father feels me? Then I will certainly appear to be mocking him, and I will bring upon myself a curse rather than a blessing.” <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> At this his mother said to him: “Upon me be the curse meant for you, my son. Just do as I say and go, get them for me.” <span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and his mother made a tasty dish, just the way his father liked it. <span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> After that Re·bekʹah took her older son Eʹsau’s finest garments, which she had in the house, and put them on her younger son Jacob. <span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> She also put the skins of the young goats on his hands and on the hairless part of his neck. <span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then she handed the tasty dish and the bread that she had made to her son Jacob.</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So he went in to his father and said: “My father!” to which he said: “Here I am! Who are you, my son?” <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jacob said to <span id="page76" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="76" data-before-text="76"></span>his father: “I am Eʹsau your firstborn. I have done just as you told me. Sit up, please, and eat some of my game, so that you<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> may bless me.” <span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At that Isaac said to his son: “How were you so quick in finding it, my son?” He replied: “Because Jehovah your God brought it to me.” <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Isaac said to Jacob: “Come near, please, that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really my son Eʹsau or not.” <span id="chapter27_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So Jacob came near to his father Isaac, and he felt him, after which he said: “The voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Eʹsau.” <span id="chapter27_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He did not recognize him because his hands were hairy like the hands of his brother Eʹsau. So he blessed him.</p>
<p id="p225" data-pid="225" class="p225 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After that he asked: “Are you really my son Eʹsau?” to which he replied: “I am.” <span id="chapter27_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then he said: “Bring me some of the wild game for me to eat, my son, then I<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a> will bless you.” With that he brought it to him and he ate, and he brought him wine and he drank. <span id="chapter27_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then Isaac his father said to him: “Come near, please, and kiss me, my son.” <span id="chapter27_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So he came near and kissed him, and he could smell the scent of his garments. Then he blessed him and said:</p>
<p id="p226" data-pid="226" class="p226 sb">“See, the scent of my son is like the scent of the field that Jehovah has blessed. <span id="chapter27_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> May the true God give you the dews of the heavens and the fertile soils of the earth and an abundance of grain and new wine. <span id="chapter27_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Let peoples serve you, and let nations bow low to you. Be master over your brothers, and let the sons of your mother bow low to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you, and blessed be everyone who blesses you.”</p>
<p id="p227" data-pid="227" class="p227 sb"><span id="pos102202"></span><span id="chapter27_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now Isaac had just finished blessing Jacob, and Jacob had barely left the presence of his father Isaac when his brother Eʹsau came back from his hunting. <span id="chapter27_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He too prepared a tasty dish and brought it to his father, and he said to his father: “Let my father get up and eat some of his son’s game, in order that you<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> may bless me.” <span id="chapter27_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> At this his father Isaac said to him: “Who are you?” to which he said: “I am your son, your firstborn, Eʹsau.” <span id="chapter27_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And Isaac began to tremble violently, so he said: “Who was it, then, who hunted for game and brought it to me? I already ate it before you arrived, and I blessed him—and he will surely be blessed!”</p>
<p id="p228" data-pid="228" class="p228 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> On hearing his father’s words, Eʹsau began to cry out in an extremely loud and bitter manner and to say to his father: “Bless me, yes, me too, my father!” <span id="chapter27_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> But he said: “Your brother came deceitfully so that he might get the blessing meant for you.” <span id="chapter27_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> At this he said: “Is he not rightly named Jacob,<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> that he might supplant me these two times? My birthright he has already taken, and now he has taken my blessing!” Then he added: “Have you not reserved a blessing for me?” <span id="chapter27_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But Isaac answered Eʹsau: “Here I have appointed him master over you, and I have given him all his brothers as servants, and I have bestowed grain and new wine for his support. What is left that I can do for you, my son?”</p>
<p id="p229" data-pid="229" class="p229 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Eʹsau said to his father: “Is there just one blessing that you have, my father? Bless me, yes, me too, my father!” With that <span id="page77" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="77" data-before-text="77"></span>Eʹsau cried loudly and burst into tears. <span id="chapter27_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So his father Isaac answered him:</p>
<p id="p230" data-pid="230" class="p230 sb">“See, away from the fertile soils of the earth your dwelling will be, and away from the dew of the heavens above. <span id="chapter27_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And by your sword you will live, and you will serve your brother. But when you grow restless, you will indeed break his yoke off your neck.”</p>
<p id="p231" data-pid="231" class="p231 sb"><span id="pos104077"></span><span id="chapter27_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> However, Eʹsau harbored animosity against Jacob because of the blessing his father had given him, and Eʹsau kept saying in his heart: “The days of mourning for my father are getting closer. After that I am going to kill Jacob my brother.” <span id="chapter27_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> When the words of her older son Eʹsau were told to Re·bekʹah, she at once sent for her younger son Jacob and said to him: “Look! Your brother Eʹsau is planning to take revenge by killing you.<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Now, my son, do as I say. Get up and run away to my brother Laʹban at Haʹran. <span id="chapter27_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Dwell with him for a while until your brother’s rage calms down, <span id="chapter27_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> until your brother’s anger toward you subsides and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will send for you from there. Why should I lose both of you in one day?”</p>
<p id="p232" data-pid="232" class="p232 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> After that Re·bekʹah kept saying to Isaac: “I am disgusted with my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob ever takes a wife from the daughters of Heth, like these daughters of the land, what good is my life?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p666" data-pid="666"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:4</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p667" data-pid="667"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:19</span></a> Or “your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p668" data-pid="668"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:25</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p669" data-pid="669"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:31</span></a> Or “your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p670" data-pid="670"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:36</span></a> Meaning “One Seizing the Heel; Supplanter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p671" data-pid="671"><a href="1001061105-split27.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 27:42</span></a> Or “comforting himself with thoughts of killing you.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
