<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_10.xhtml">1 - 48</a></p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos46324"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>Now there was a man in Caes·a·reʹa named Cornelius, an army officer<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> in what was called the Italian unit.<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He was a devout man who feared God together with all his household, and he made many gifts of mercy to the people and made supplication to God continually. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> About the ninth hour of the day,<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> he saw plainly in a vision an angel of God come in to him and say: “Cornelius!” <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Cornelius stared at him, terrified, and asked: “What is it, Lord?” He said to him: “Your prayers and gifts of mercy have ascended as a remembrance before God. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So now send men to Jopʹpa and summon a man named Simon who is called Peter. <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> This man is staying as a guest with<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> Simon, a tanner who has a house by the sea.” <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> As soon as the angel who spoke to him left, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who were his attendants, <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and he related everything to them and sent them to Jopʹpa.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos47246"></span><span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The next day as they were continuing on their journey and were approaching the city, Peter went up to the housetop about the sixth hour<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> to pray. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But he became very hungry and wanted to eat. While they were preparing the meal, he fell into a trance <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and saw heaven opened and something<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> descending like a great linen sheet being let down by its four corners on the earth; <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and in it were all sorts of four-footed animals and reptiles<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> of the earth and birds of heaven. <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then a voice said to him: “Get up, Peter, slaughter and eat!” <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But Peter said: “Not at all, Lord, because I have never eaten anything defiled and unclean.” <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And the voice spoke again to him, the second time: “Stop calling defiled the things God has <span id="page1476" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1476" data-before-text="1476"></span>cleansed.” <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This happened a third time, and immediately it<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> was taken up into heaven.</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos48103"></span><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> While Peter was still perplexed about what the vision he had seen could mean, just then the men sent by Cornelius asked where Simon’s house was and stood there at the gate. <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They called out and inquired whether Simon who was called Peter was a guest there. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> As Peter was still pondering over the vision, the spirit said: “Look! Three men are asking for you. <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So get up, go downstairs and go with them, not doubting at all, because I have sent them.” <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Peter went downstairs to the men and said: “Here I am, the one you are looking for. Why are you here?” <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> They said: “Cornelius, an army officer, a righteous and God-fearing man who is well-reported-on by the whole nation of the Jews, was given divine instructions by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.” <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So he invited them in and had them stay as his guests.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb">The next day he got up and went off with them, and some of the brothers from Jopʹpa went with him. <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The following day he entered into Caes·a·reʹa. Cornelius, of course, was expecting them and had called together his relatives and close friends. <span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> As Peter entered, Cornelius met him, fell down at his feet, and did obeisance<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> to him. <span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But Peter lifted him up, saying: “Rise; I too am just a man.” <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As he conversed with him, he went in and found many people assembled. <span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He said to them: “You well know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or approach a man of another race, and yet God has shown me that I should call no man defiled or unclean. <span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So I came, really without objection, when I was sent for. Therefore, I ask you why you sent for me.”</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then Cornelius said: “Four days ago counting from this hour, I was praying in my house at the ninth hour;<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> just then a man in bright clothing stood in front of me <span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and said: ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been favorably heard, and your gifts of mercy have been remembered before God. <span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Therefore, send to Jopʹpa and call for Simon who is called Peter. This man is a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea.’ <span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> I then sent for you at once, and you were kind enough to come here. So now we are all present before God to hear all the things you have been commanded by Jehovah<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> to say.”</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="pos50416"></span><span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> At this Peter began to speak, and he said: “Now I truly understand that God is not partial, <span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> but in every nation the man who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> He sent out the word to the sons of Israel to declare to them the good news of peace through Jesus Christ—this one is Lord of all. <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> You know the subject that was talked about throughout all Ju·deʹa, starting from Galʹi·lee after the baptism that John preached: <span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> about Jesus who was from Nazʹa·reth, how God anointed him with holy spirit and power, and he went through the land doing good and healing all those oppressed by the Devil, because God was with him. <span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And we are witnesses of all the things he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem; but they did away <span id="page1477" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1477" data-before-text="1477"></span>with him by hanging him on a stake.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> God raised this one up on the third day and allowed him to become manifest,<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> not to all the people, but to witnesses appointed beforehand by God, to us, who ate and drank with him after his rising from the dead. <span id="chapter10_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Also, he ordered us to preach to the people and to give a thorough witness that this is the one decreed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. <span id="chapter10_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> To him all the prophets bear witness, that everyone putting faith in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="pos51777"></span><span id="chapter10_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> While Peter was still speaking about these matters, the holy spirit came upon all those hearing the word. <span id="chapter10_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> And the circumcised believers<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> who had come with Peter were amazed, because the free gift of the holy spirit was being poured out also on people of the nations. <span id="chapter10_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> For they heard them speaking in foreign languages<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> and magnifying God. Then Peter responded: <span id="chapter10_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> “Can anyone deny water to prevent these from being baptized who have received the holy spirit just as we have?” <span id="chapter10_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> With that he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they requested him to stay for some days.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:1</span></a> Or “a centurion,” in command of 100 soldiers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:1</span></a> Or “cohort,” a Roman army unit of 600 soldiers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:3</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p303" data-pid="303"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:6</span></a> Or “being entertained by.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p304" data-pid="304"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:9</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p305" data-pid="305"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:11</span></a> Lit., “some sort of vessel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:12</span></a> Or “creeping things.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:16</span></a> Lit., “the vessel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:25</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:30</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:33</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:39</span></a> Or “tree.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:40</span></a> Or “visible.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:45</span></a> Or “faithful ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061148-split10.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 10:46</span></a> Lit., “in tongues.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
