<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_9.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos40505"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>But Saul, still breathing threat and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that he might bring bound to Jerusalem any whom he found who belonged to The Way, both men and women.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now as he was traveling and getting near Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him, <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and he fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him: “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?” <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He asked: “Who are you, Lord?” He said: “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do.” <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now the men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing, indeed, the sound of a voice but seeing no one. <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Saul then got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And for three days he did not see anything, and he neither ate nor drank.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos41496"></span><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> There was a disciple named An·a·niʹas in Damascus, and the Lord said to him in a vision: “An·a·niʹas!” He said: “Here I am, Lord.” <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The Lord said to him: “Get up, go to the street called Straight, and look for a man named Saul, from Tarsus, at the house of Judas. For look! <span id="page1474" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1474" data-before-text="1474"></span>he is praying, <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and in a vision he has seen a man named An·a·niʹas come in and lay his hands on him so that he may recover sight.” <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But An·a·niʹas answered: “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, about all the harm he did to your holy ones in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And here he has authority from the chief priests to arrest<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> all those calling on your name.” <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But the Lord said to him: “Go! because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For I will show him plainly how many things he must suffer for my name.”</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So An·a·niʹas went and entered the house, and he laid his hands on him and said: “Saul, brother, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road along which you were coming, has sent me so that you may recover sight and be filled with holy spirit.” <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And immediately, what looked like scales fell from his eyes, and he recovered his sight. He then got up and was baptized, <span id="pos42788"></span><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and he ate some food and gained strength.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb">He stayed for some days with the disciples in Damascus, <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and immediately in the synagogues he began to preach about Jesus, that this one is the Son of God. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But all those hearing him were astonished and were saying: “Is this not the man who ravaged those in Jerusalem who call on this name? Did he not come here for the purpose of arresting them and taking them<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> to the chief priests?” <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But Saul kept on acquiring more and more power and was confounding the Jews who lived in Damascus, as he proved logically that this is the Christ.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now when many days had passed, the Jews plotted together to do away with him. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> However, their plot against Saul became known to him. They were also watching the gates closely both day and night in order to do away with him. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So his disciples took him and let him down by night through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos43749"></span><span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> On arriving in Jerusalem, he made efforts to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, because they did not believe he was a disciple. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So Barʹna·bas came to his aid and led him to the apostles, and he told them in detail how on the road he had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus. <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So he remained with them, moving about freely in<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord. <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He was talking and disputing with the Greek-speaking Jews, but these made attempts to do away with him. <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> When the brothers found out about this, they brought him down to Caes·a·reʹa and sent him off to Tarsus.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then, indeed, the congregation throughout the whole of Ju·deʹa and Galʹi·lee and Sa·marʹi·a entered into a period of peace, being built up; and as it walked in the fear of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> and in the comfort of the holy spirit, it kept on multiplying.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos44716"></span><span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now as Peter was traveling through all the region, he came down also to the holy ones who lived in Lydʹda. <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> There he found a man named Ae·neʹas, who had been lying flat on his bed for eight years, for he was paralyzed. <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Peter said to him: “Ae·neʹas, Jesus Christ <span id="page1475" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1475" data-before-text="1475"></span>heals you. Rise and make up your bed.” And he got up immediately. <span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> When all those living in Lydʹda and the Plain of Sharʹon saw him, they turned to the Lord.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos45169"></span><span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Now there was in Jopʹpa a disciple named Tabʹi·tha, which means, when translated, “Dorʹcas.”<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> She abounded in good deeds and gifts of mercy that she was making. <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But in those days she fell sick and died. So they bathed her and laid her in an upper room. <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Since Lydʹda was near Jopʹpa, when the disciples heard that Peter was in that city, they sent two men to him to urge him: “Please come to us without delay.” <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> At that Peter got up and went with them. And when he arrived, they led him up into the upper room; and all the widows presented themselves to him, weeping and showing many garments and robes<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> that Dorʹcas had made while she was with them. <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Peter then put everyone outside, and kneeling down, he prayed. Then turning toward the body, he said: “Tabʹi·tha, rise!” She opened her eyes, and as she caught sight of Peter, she sat up. <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Giving her his hand, he raised her up, and he called the holy ones and the widows and presented her alive. <span id="chapter9_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> This became known throughout all Jopʹpa, and many became believers in the Lord. <span id="chapter9_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> He remained for quite a few days in Jopʹpa with a tanner named Simon.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:14</span></a> Lit., “bind; put in bonds.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:21</span></a> Lit., “that he might lead them bound.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:28</span></a> Lit., “walking in and out of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:31</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:36</span></a> The Greek name Dorcas and the Aramaic name Tabitha both mean “Gazelle.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061148-split9.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 9:39</span></a> Or “outer garments.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
