<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_14.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos67479"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Now in I·coʹni·um they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews and spoke in such a manner that a great multitude of both Jews and Greeks became believers. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But the Jews who did not believe stirred up and wrongly influenced the people<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> of the nations against the brothers. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So they spent considerable time speaking with boldness by the authority of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> who bore witness to the word of his undeserved kindness by allowing signs and wonders<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> to be performed through them. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, the multitude of the city was divided; some were for the Jews but others for the apostles. <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When both the people of the nations and the Jews with their rulers made an attempt to treat them insolently and stone them, <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> they were informed of it, and they fled to the cities of Lyc·a·oʹni·a, Lysʹtra and Derʹbe, and to the surrounding country. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> There they went on declaring the good news.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos68382"></span><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now in Lysʹtra there was a man sitting down whose feet were crippled. He was lame from birth and had never walked. <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> This man was listening to Paul as he was speaking. Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well, <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> said with a loud voice: “Stand up on your feet.” So the man leaped up and began walking. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When the crowds saw what Paul had done, they cried out in the Lyc·a·oʹni·an language: “The gods have become like humans and have come down to us!” <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And they started calling Barʹna·bas Zeus, but Paul Herʹmes, since he was taking the lead in speaking. <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance of the city, brought bulls and garlands<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifices with the crowds.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, when the apostles Barʹna·bas and Paul heard of it, they ripped their garments and leaped out into the crowd and cried out: <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Men, why are you doing these things? We too are humans having the same infirmities as you have. And we are declaring the good news to you, for you to turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the things in them. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> In past generations he permitted all the nations to go on in their ways, <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> although he did not leave himself without witness in that he did good, giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying you with food and filling your hearts with gladness.” <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And yet despite saying these things, they barely <span id="page1483" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1483" data-before-text="1483"></span>restrained the crowds from sacrificing to them.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos69962"></span><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But Jews arrived from Antioch and I·coʹni·um and persuaded the crowds, and they stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, imagining that he was dead. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> However, when the disciples surrounded him, he got up and entered the city. On the next day he left with Barʹna·bas for Derʹbe. <span id="pos70261"></span><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After declaring the good news to that city and making quite a few disciples, they returned to Lysʹtra, I·coʹni·um, and Antioch. <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> There they strengthened the disciples,<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> encouraging them to remain in the faith and saying: “We must enter into the Kingdom of God through many tribulations.” <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Moreover, they appointed elders for them in each congregation, offering prayer with fasting, and they entrusted them to Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> in whom they had become believers.</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos70737"></span><span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then they went through Pi·sidʹi·a and came into Pam·phylʹi·a, <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and after proclaiming the word in Perga, they went down to At·ta·liʹa. <span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> From there they sailed off for Antioch, where they had been entrusted to the undeserved kindness of God for the work they had now completed.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When they had arrived and had gathered the congregation together, they related the many things God had done by means of them, and that he had opened to the nations the door to faith. <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So they spent considerable time with the disciples.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p347" data-pid="347"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:2</span></a> Or “the souls of the people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p348" data-pid="348"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:3</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p350" data-pid="350"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:13</span></a> Or “wreaths.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p351" data-pid="351"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:22</span></a> Or “the souls of the disciples.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061148-split14.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 14:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
