<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_6.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos16377"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must say, ‘O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah: This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says to the mountains, to the hills, to the streams, and to the valleys: “Look! I will bring a sword against you, and I will destroy your high places. <span id="pos16794"></span><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Your altars will be demolished, your incense stands will be broken, and I will throw your slain ones down before your disgusting idols.<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> I will throw the carcasses of the people of Israel before their disgusting idols, and I will scatter your bones all around your altars. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In all the places where you dwell, the cities will be devastated and the high places will be demolished and will lie devastated. Your altars will be demolished and shattered, your disgusting idols will perish, your incense stands will be cut down, and your works will be wiped out. <span id="pos17366"></span><span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And those slain will fall in your midst, and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘“But I will leave a remnant, for some of you will escape the sword among the nations when you are scattered throughout the lands. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And <span id="page1139" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1139" data-before-text="1139"></span>those who escape will remember me among the nations where they are taken captive. They will realize that I was brokenhearted over their unfaithful<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> heart that turned away from me and at their eyes that are lusting<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> after their disgusting idols. They will be ashamed of and loathe all the evil and detestable things they have done. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They will have to know that I am Jehovah and that my threats to bring this calamity on them were not empty.”’</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Clap your hands and stamp your foot and bemoan all the evil and detestable things done by the house of Israel, for they will fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The one far away will die by pestilence, the one nearby will fall by the sword, and whoever escapes these and is left remaining will die by famine; and I will fully unleash my wrath against them. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you will have to know that I am Jehovah, when their slain lie among their disgusting idols, all around their altars, on every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every luxuriant tree, and under the branches of big trees where they have made fragrant offerings<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> to appease all their disgusting idols. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate, and all their dwelling places will become more desolate than the wilderness near Dibʹlah. And they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p622" data-pid="622"><a href="1001061130-split6.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 6:4</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p623" data-pid="623"><a href="1001061130-split6.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 6:9</span></a> Or “immoral; promiscuous.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p624" data-pid="624"><a href="1001061130-split6.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 6:9</span></a> Or “are immorally following.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p625" data-pid="625"><a href="1001061130-split6.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 6:13</span></a> Or “offered pleasing aromas.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
