<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_22.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos109645"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>“Men, brothers and fathers, hear my defense to you now.” <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Well, when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they kept all the more silent, and he said: <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Ci·liʹcia, but educated in this city at the feet of Ga·maʹli·el, instructed according to the strictness of the ancestral Law, and zealous for God just as all of you are this day. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I persecuted this Way to the point of death, binding and handing over to prisons both men and women, <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> as the high priest and all the assembly of elders can bear witness. From them I also obtained letters to the brothers in Damascus, and I was on my way to bring those who were there in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished.</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “But as I was traveling and getting near to Damascus, about midday, suddenly out of heaven a great light flashed all around me, <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me: ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’ <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I answered: ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And he said to me: ‘I am Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, whom you are persecuting.’ <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now the men who were <span id="page1496" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1496" data-before-text="1496"></span>with me did see the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one speaking to me. <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At that I said: ‘What should I do, Lord?’ The Lord said to me: ‘Rise, go into Damascus, and there you will be told about everything it is appointed for you to do.’ <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But since I could not see anything because of the glory of that light, I arrived in Damascus led by the hand of those who were with me.</p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Then a man named An·a·niʹas, a devout man according to the Law, well-reported-on by all the Jews living there, <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> came to me. He stood by me and said to me: ‘Saul, brother, regain your sight!’ And that very moment I looked up and saw him. <span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He said: ‘The God of our forefathers has chosen you to come to know his will and to see the righteous one and to hear the voice of his mouth, <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> because you are to be a witness for him to all men of the things you have seen and heard. <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And now why are you delaying? Rise, get baptized, and wash your sins away by your calling on his name.’</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “But when I had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and saw him saying to me: ‘Hurry up and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your witness concerning me.’ <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And I said: ‘Lord, they themselves well know that I used to imprison and flog in one synagogue after another those believing in you; <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and when the blood of Stephen your witness was being spilled, I was standing by and approving and guarding the outer garments of those doing away with him.’ <span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And yet he said to me: ‘Go, because I will send you out to nations far away.’”</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="pos112392"></span><span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now they kept listening to him down to this word. Then they raised their voices, saying: “Take such a man away from the earth, for he is not fit to live!” <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Because they were crying out, throwing their outer garments about, and tossing dust into the air, <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> the military commander ordered Paul to be brought into the soldiers’ quarters and said that he should be interrogated under scourging, so that he could learn exactly why they were shouting against Paul this way. <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But when they had stretched him out for the whipping, Paul said to the army officer standing there: “Is it lawful for you to scourge a Roman<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> who has not been condemned?”<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> <span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Well, when the army officer heard this, he went to the military commander and reported it, saying: “What are you intending to do? For this man is a Roman.” <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So the military commander approached and said to him: “Tell me, are you a Roman?” He said: “Yes.” <span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The military commander responded: “I purchased these rights as a citizen for a large sum of money.” Paul said: “But I have them by birth.”</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Immediately, therefore, the men who were about to interrogate him under torture backed away from him; and the military commander became afraid when he realized that he was a Roman and that he had bound him in chains.</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos113694"></span><span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So the next day, because he wanted to know for sure just why he was being accused by the Jews, he released him and commanded the chief priests and all the Sanʹhe·drin to assemble. He then brought Paul down and had him stand among them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061148-split22.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 22:25</span></a> Or “Roman citizen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061148-split22.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 22:25</span></a> Or “has not had a trial?”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
