<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">36</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_36.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p301" data-pid="301" class="p301 sb"><span id="pos142807"></span><span id="chapter36"></span><span id="chapter36_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>36</strong> </span>This is the history of Eʹsau, that is, Eʹdom.</p>
<p id="p302" data-pid="302" class="p302 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Eʹsau took his wives from the daughters of Caʹnaan: Aʹdah the daughter of Eʹlon the Hitʹtite; and O·hol·i·baʹmah the daughter of Aʹnah, the granddaughter of Zibʹe·on the Hiʹvite; <span id="chapter36_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and Basʹe·math, Ishʹma·el’s daughter, the sister of Ne·baʹioth.</p>
<p id="p303" data-pid="303" class="p303 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And Aʹdah bore Elʹi·phaz to Eʹsau, and Basʹe·math bore Reuʹel,</p><p data-pid="303" class="p303 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and O·hol·i·baʹmah bore Jeʹush, Jaʹlam, and Korʹah.</p>
<p id="p304" data-pid="304" class="p304 sb">These are the sons of Eʹsau, who were born to him in the land of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter36_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After that Eʹsau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, all the members<span id="footnotesource273"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote273">*</a> of his household, his herd and all his other beasts, and all the wealth he had accumulated in the land of Caʹnaan and he went to another land some distance away from Jacob his brother. <span id="chapter36_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For their goods had become too many for them to dwell together, and the land where they were residing<span id="footnotesource274"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote274">*</a> was not able to sustain them because of their herds. <span id="chapter36_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Eʹsau took up <span id="page90" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="90" data-before-text="90"></span>dwelling in the mountainous region of Seʹir. Eʹsau is Eʹdom.</p>
<p id="p305" data-pid="305" class="p305 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And this is the history of Eʹsau the father of Eʹdom in the mountainous region of Seʹir.</p>
<p id="p306" data-pid="306" class="p306 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> These are the names of the sons of Eʹsau: Elʹi·phaz the son of Aʹdah, Eʹsau’s wife; Reuʹel the son of Basʹe·math, Eʹsau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p307" data-pid="307" class="p307 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The sons of Elʹi·phaz were Teʹman, Oʹmar, Zeʹpho, Gaʹtam, and Keʹnaz. <span id="chapter36_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Timʹna became the concubine of Elʹi·phaz, Eʹsau’s son. In time she bore to Elʹi·phaz, Amʹa·lek. These are the sons of Aʹdah, Eʹsau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p308" data-pid="308" class="p308 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> These are the sons of Reuʹel: Naʹhath, Zeʹrah, Shamʹmah, and Mizʹzah. These were the sons of Basʹe·math, Eʹsau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p309" data-pid="309" class="p309 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These were the sons of O·hol·i·baʹmah the daughter of Aʹnah, the granddaughter of Zibʹe·on, Eʹsau’s wife, whom she bore to Eʹsau: Jeʹush, Jaʹlam, and Korʹah.</p>
<p id="p310" data-pid="310" class="p310 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> These are the sheikhs<span id="footnotesource275"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote275">*</a> of the sons of Eʹsau: The sons of Elʹi·phaz, Eʹsau’s firstborn: Sheikh Teʹman, Sheikh Oʹmar, Sheikh Zeʹpho, Sheikh Keʹnaz, <span id="chapter36_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Sheikh Korʹah, Sheikh Gaʹtam, and Sheikh Amʹa·lek. These are the sheikhs of Elʹi·phaz in the land of Eʹdom. These are the sons by Aʹdah.</p>
<p id="p311" data-pid="311" class="p311 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> These are the sons of Reuʹel, Eʹsau’s son: Sheikh Naʹhath, Sheikh Zeʹrah, Sheikh Shamʹmah, and Sheikh Mizʹzah. These are the sheikhs of Reuʹel in the land of Eʹdom. These are the sons by Basʹe·math, Eʹsau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p312" data-pid="312" class="p312 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Finally these are the sons of O·hol·i·baʹmah, Eʹsau’s wife: Sheikh Jeʹush, Sheikh Jaʹlam, and Sheikh Korʹah. These are the sheikhs of O·hol·i·baʹmah the daughter of Aʹnah, Eʹsau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p313" data-pid="313" class="p313 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> These are the sons of Eʹsau, and these are their sheikhs. He is Eʹdom.</p>
<p id="p314" data-pid="314" class="p314 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> These are the sons of Seʹir the Horʹite, the inhabitants of the land: Loʹtan, Shoʹbal, Zibʹe·on, Aʹnah, <span id="chapter36_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Diʹshon, Eʹzer, and Diʹshan. These are the sheikhs of the Horʹites, the sons of Seʹir, in the land of Eʹdom.</p>
<p id="p315" data-pid="315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The sons of Loʹtan were Hoʹri and Heʹmam, and Loʹtan’s sister was Timʹna.</p>
<p id="p316" data-pid="316" class="p316 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> These are the sons of Shoʹbal: Alʹvan, Manʹa·hath, Eʹbal, Sheʹpho, and Oʹnam.</p>
<p id="p317" data-pid="317" class="p317 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> These are the sons of Zibʹe·on: Aʹiah and Aʹnah. This is the Aʹnah who found the hot springs in the wilderness while he was tending the donkeys for Zibʹe·on his father.</p>
<p id="p318" data-pid="318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> These are the children of Aʹnah: Diʹshon and O·hol·i·baʹmah the daughter of Aʹnah.</p>
<p id="p319" data-pid="319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> These are the sons of Diʹshon: Hemʹdan, Eshʹban, Ithʹran, and Cheʹran.</p>
<p id="p320" data-pid="320" class="p320 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> These are the sons of Eʹzer: Bilʹhan, Zaʹa·van, and Aʹkan.</p>
<p id="p321" data-pid="321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> These are the sons of Diʹshan: Uz and Aʹran.</p>
<p id="p322" data-pid="322" class="p322 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> These are the sheikhs of the Horʹites: Sheikh Loʹtan, Sheikh Shoʹbal, Sheikh Zibʹe·on, Sheikh Aʹnah, <span id="chapter36_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Sheikh Diʹshon, Sheikh Eʹzer, and Sheikh Diʹshan. These are the sheikhs of the Horʹites according to their sheikhs in the land of Seʹir.</p>
<p id="p323" data-pid="323" class="p323 sb"><span id="pos146482"></span><span id="chapter36_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Eʹdom before any king reigned over the Israelites.<span id="footnotesource276"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote276">*</a> <span id="chapter36_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Beʹla son of Beʹor reigned in Eʹdom, and the name of his city was Dinʹha·bah. <span id="chapter36_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> When Beʹla died, Joʹbab son of Zeʹrah from Bozʹrah began to reign <span id="page91" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="91" data-before-text="91"></span>in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> When Joʹbab died, Huʹsham from the land of the Teʹman·ites began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> When Huʹsham died, Haʹdad son of Beʹdad, who defeated the Midʹi·an·ites in the territory<span id="footnotesource277"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote277">*</a> of Moʹab, began to reign in his place, and the name of his city was Aʹvith. <span id="chapter36_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> When Haʹdad died, Samʹlah from Mas·reʹkah began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> When Samʹlah died, Shaʹul from Re·hoʹboth by the River began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> When Shaʹul died, Baʹal-haʹnan the son of Achʹbor began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> When Baʹal-haʹnan the son of Achʹbor died, Haʹdar began to reign in his place. The name of his city was Paʹu, and the name of his wife was Me·hetʹa·bel the daughter of Maʹtred the daughter of Meʹza·hab.</p>
<p id="p324" data-pid="324" class="p324 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> So these are the names of the sheikhs of Eʹsau according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Sheikh Timʹna, Sheikh Alʹvah, Sheikh Jeʹtheth, <span id="chapter36_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Sheikh O·hol·i·baʹmah, Sheikh Eʹlah, Sheikh Piʹnon, <span id="chapter36_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Sheikh Keʹnaz, Sheikh Teʹman, Sheikh Mibʹzar, <span id="chapter36_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Sheikh Magʹdi·el, and Sheikh Iʹram. These are the sheikhs of Eʹdom according to their settlements in the land of their possession. This is Eʹsau the father of Eʹdom.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote273"><p id="p740" data-pid="740"><a href="1001061105-split36.xhtml#footnotesource273">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:6</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote274"><p id="p741" data-pid="741"><a href="1001061105-split36.xhtml#footnotesource274">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:7</span></a> Or “living as foreigners.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote275"><p id="p742" data-pid="742"><a href="1001061105-split36.xhtml#footnotesource275">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:15</span></a> A sheikh was a tribal chief.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote276"><p id="p743" data-pid="743"><a href="1001061105-split36.xhtml#footnotesource276">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:31</span></a> Lit., “the sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote277"><p id="p744" data-pid="744"><a href="1001061105-split36.xhtml#footnotesource277">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:35</span></a> Lit., “field.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
