<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_14.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="pos40824"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Pursue love, yet keep striving for<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> the spiritual gifts, but preferably that you may prophesy. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For the one who speaks in a tongue speaks, not to men, but to God, for no one listens, but he speaks sacred secrets by the spirit. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, the one who prophesies builds up and encourages and consoles men by his speech. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up a congregation. <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now I would like for all of you to speak in tongues, but I prefer that you prophesy. Indeed, the one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets,<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> so that the congregation may be built up. <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But at this time, brothers, if I should come speaking to you in tongues, what good would I do you unless I spoke to you either with a revelation or with knowledge or with a prophecy or with a teaching?</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> It is the same with the inanimate things that produce sound, whether a flute or a harp. Unless there is an interval to the tones, how can what is being played on the flute or on the harp be recognized? <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For if the trumpet sounds an indistinct call, who will get ready for battle? <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In the same way, unless you with the tongue use speech that is easily understood, how will anyone know what is being said? You will, in fact, be speaking into the air. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> It may be that there are many kinds of speech in the world, and yet no kind is without meaning. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For if I do not understand the sense of the speech, I will be a foreigner to the one speaking, and the one speaking will be a foreigner to me. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So also with you, since you eagerly desire the gifts of the spirit, seek to abound in gifts that will build up the congregation.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Therefore, let the one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For if I am praying in a tongue, it is my gift of the spirit that is praying, but my mind is unproductive. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> What is to be done, then? I will pray with the gift of the spirit, but I will also pray with my mind. I will sing praise with the gift of the spirit, but I will also sing praise with my mind. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Otherwise, if you offer praise with a gift of the spirit, how will the ordinary person in your midst say “Amen” to your giving of thanks, since <span id="page1540" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1540" data-before-text="1540"></span>he does not know what you are saying? <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> True, you are giving thanks in a fine way, but the other man is not being built up. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I thank God that I speak in more tongues than all of you do. <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Nevertheless, in a congregation I would rather speak five words with my mind,<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> that I might also instruct<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Brothers, do not become young children in your understanding, but be young children as to badness; and become full-grown in your understanding. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In the Law it is written: “‘With the tongues of foreigners and with the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, and even then they will refuse to listen to me,’ says Jehovah.”<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Therefore, tongues are not a sign for the believers but for the unbelievers, whereas prophecy is not for the unbelievers but for the believers. <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So if the whole congregation comes together to one place and they all speak in tongues, but ordinary people or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you have lost your minds? <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But if you are all prophesying and an unbeliever or an ordinary person comes in, he will be reproved and closely examined by them all. <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The secrets of his heart then become evident, so that he will fall facedown and worship God, declaring: “God is really among you.”</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="pos44424"></span><span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> What is to be done, then, brothers? When you come together, one has a psalm, another has a teaching, another has a revelation, another has a tongue, and another has an interpretation. Let all things take place for building up. <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And if someone speaks in a tongue, let it be limited to two or three at the most, and in turns, and someone must interpret.<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But if there is no interpreter,<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> he must keep silent in the congregation and speak to himself and to God. <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others discern the meaning. <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But if another one receives a revelation while sitting there, let the first speaker keep silent. <span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> For you can all prophesy one at a time, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged. <span id="chapter14_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And gifts of the spirit of the prophets are to be controlled by the prophets. <span id="chapter14_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> For God is a God not of disorder but of peace.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb">As in all the congregations of the holy ones, <span id="pos45372"></span><span id="chapter14_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> let the women keep silent in the congregations, for it is not permitted for them to speak. Rather, let them be in subjection, as the Law also says. <span id="chapter14_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> If they want to learn something, let them ask their husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the congregation.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Was it from you that the word of God originated, or did it reach only as far as you?</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> If anyone thinks he is a prophet or is gifted with the spirit, he must acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are the Lord’s commandment. <span id="chapter14_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But if anyone disregards this, he will be disregarded.<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So, my brothers, keep striving to prophesy, and yet do not forbid the speaking in tongues. <span id="chapter14_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But let all things take place decently and by arrangement.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p199" data-pid="199"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:1</span></a> Or “keep zealously seeking.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p200" data-pid="200"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:5</span></a> Or “translates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p201" data-pid="201"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:13</span></a> Or “translate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p202" data-pid="202"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:19</span></a> Or “understanding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p203" data-pid="203"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:19</span></a> Or “instruct orally.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p204" data-pid="204"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p205" data-pid="205"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:27</span></a> Or “translate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p206" data-pid="206"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:28</span></a> Or “translator.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p207" data-pid="207"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:38</span></a> Or possibly, “if anyone is ignorant, he will continue ignorant.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p208" data-pid="208"><a href="1001061150-split14.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 14:40</span></a> Or “in an orderly manner.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
