<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">28</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_28.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p289" data-pid="289" class="p289 sb"><span id="pos115259"></span><span id="chapter28"></span><span id="chapter28_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>28</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="pos115311"></span><span id="chapter28_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, tell the leader of Tyre, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p290" data-pid="290" class="p290 sz">“Because your heart has become haughty, you keep saying, ‘I am a god.</p>
<p id="p291" data-pid="291" class="p291 sz">I sit on the throne of a god in the heart of the sea.’</p>
<p id="p292" data-pid="292" class="p292 sz">But you are only a man, not a god,</p><p data-pid="292" class="p292 sz">Though in your heart you feel that you are a god.</p>
<p id="p293" data-pid="293" class="p293 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Look! You are wiser than Daniel.</p>
<p id="p294" data-pid="294" class="p294 sz">No secrets have been hidden from you.</p>
<p id="p295" data-pid="295" class="p295 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You have made yourself wealthy by your wisdom and your discernment,</p><p data-pid="295" class="p295 sz">And you keep storing up gold and silver in your treasuries.</p>
<p id="p296" data-pid="296" class="p296 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Your skillful trading brought you great wealth,</p><p data-pid="296" class="p296 sz">And your heart grew haughty because of your wealth.”’</p>
<p id="p297" data-pid="297" class="p297 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p298" data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">“Because in your heart you feel that you are a god,</p><p data-pid="298" class="p298 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse7"></span><span id="page1172" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1172" data-before-text="1172"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> I am bringing foreigners against you, the most ruthless of the nations,</p><p data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">And they will draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom</p><p data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">And defile your glorious splendor.</p>
<p id="p299" data-pid="299" class="p299 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They will bring you down to the pit,<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a></p><p data-pid="299" class="p299 sz">And you will die a violent death in the heart of the open sea.</p>
<p id="p300" data-pid="300" class="p300 sl"><span id="pos116365"></span><span id="chapter28_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Will you still say, ‘I am a god,’ to the one killing you?</p>
<p id="p301" data-pid="301" class="p301 sz">You will be a mere man, not a god, in the hand of those defiling you.”’</p>
<p id="p302" data-pid="302" class="p302 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> ‘By the hand of foreigners, you will die the death of the uncircumcised ones,</p><p data-pid="302" class="p302 sz">For I myself have spoken,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p303" data-pid="303" class="p303 sb"><span id="pos116655"></span><span id="chapter28_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter28_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Son of man, sing a dirge<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a> concerning the king of Tyre, and tell him, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p304" data-pid="304" class="p304 sz">“You were the model of perfection,<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a></p><p data-pid="304" class="p304 sz">Full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.</p>
<p id="p305" data-pid="305" class="p305 sl"><span id="pos116917"></span><span id="chapter28_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You were in Eʹden, the garden of God.</p>
<p id="p306" data-pid="306" class="p306 sz">You were adorned with every precious stone</p><p data-pid="306" class="p306 sz">—Ruby, topaz, and jasper; chrysʹo·lite, onyx, and jade; sapphire, turquoise, and emerald;</p><p data-pid="306" class="p306 sz">And their settings and mountings were made of gold.</p>
<p id="p307" data-pid="307" class="p307 sz">They were prepared on the day you were created.</p>
<p id="p308" data-pid="308" class="p308 sl"><span id="pos117205"></span><span id="chapter28_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I assigned you as the anointed covering cherub.</p>
<p id="p309" data-pid="309" class="p309 sz">You were on the holy mountain of God, and you walked about among fiery stones.</p>
<p id="p310" data-pid="310" class="p310 sl"><span id="pos117342"></span><span id="chapter28_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You were faultless in your ways from the day you were created</p><p data-pid="310" class="p310 sz">Until unrighteousness was found in you.</p>
<p id="p311" data-pid="311" class="p311 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Because of your abundant trade,</p><p data-pid="311" class="p311 sz">You became filled with violence, and you began to sin.</p>
<p id="p312" data-pid="312" class="p312 sz">So I will cast you out as profane from the mountain of God and destroy you,</p><p data-pid="312" class="p312 sz">O covering cherub, away from the stones of fire.</p>
<p id="p313" data-pid="313" class="p313 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Your heart became haughty because of your beauty.</p>
<p id="p314" data-pid="314" class="p314 sz">You corrupted your wisdom because of your own glorious splendor.</p>
<p id="p315" data-pid="315" class="p315 sz">I will throw you down to the earth.</p>
<p id="p316" data-pid="316" class="p316 sz">I will make you a spectacle before kings.</p>
<p id="p317" data-pid="317" class="p317 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Because of your great guilt and your dishonest trading, you have profaned your sanctuaries.</p>
<p id="p318" data-pid="318" class="p318 sz">I will cause a fire to break out in your midst, and it will consume you.</p>
<p id="p319" data-pid="319" class="p319 sz">I will reduce you to ashes on the earth before all those looking at you.</p>
<p id="p320" data-pid="320" class="p320 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> All who knew you among the peoples will stare at you in amazement.</p>
<p id="p321" data-pid="321" class="p321 sz">Your end will be sudden and terrible,</p><p data-pid="321" class="p321 sz">And you will cease to exist for all time.”’”</p>
<p id="p322" data-pid="322" class="p322 sb"><span id="pos118306"></span><span id="chapter28_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter28_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward Siʹdon, and prophesy against her. <span id="chapter28_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You should say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p323" data-pid="323" class="p323 sz"><span id="page1173" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1173" data-before-text="1173"></span>“Here I am against you, O Siʹdon, and I will be glorified in your midst;</p><p data-pid="323" class="p323 sz">And people will have to know that I am Jehovah when I execute judgment on her and I am sanctified in her.</p>
<p id="p324" data-pid="324" class="p324 sl"><span id="chapter28_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> I will send pestilence into her and blood will flow in her streets.</p>
<p id="p325" data-pid="325" class="p325 sz">The slain will fall in her midst when the sword comes against her from all sides;</p><p data-pid="325" class="p325 sz">And they will have to know that I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p326" data-pid="326" class="p326 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “‘“Then the house of Israel will no longer be surrounded by injurious briars and painful thorns, those who treat them with scorn; and people will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’</p>
<p id="p327" data-pid="327" class="p327 sb"><span id="pos119113"></span><span id="chapter28_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “When I regather the house of Israel from among the peoples where they were scattered, I will be sanctified among them in the eyes of the nations. And they will dwell on their land that I gave to my servant Jacob. <span id="chapter28_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> They will dwell on it in security and build houses and plant vineyards, and they will dwell in security when I execute judgment on all those around them who treat them with scorn; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah their God.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p812" data-pid="812"><a href="1001061130-split28.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 28:8</span></a> Or “grave.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p813" data-pid="813"><a href="1001061130-split28.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 28:12</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p814" data-pid="814"><a href="1001061130-split28.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 28:12</span></a> Lit., “were sealing up a pattern.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
