<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061162"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Hebrews</a>  <a href="biblechapternav58.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav58_9.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="pos20059"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>For its part, the former covenant used to have legal requirements for sacred service and its holy place on earth. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For a first tent compartment was constructed, in which were the lampstand and the table and the display of the loaves of presentation;<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> and it is called the Holy Place. <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But behind the second curtain was the tent compartment called the Most Holy. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> This had a golden censer and the ark of the covenant completely overlaid with gold, in which were the golden jar containing the manna and Aaron’s rod that budded and the tablets of the covenant; <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and above it were the glorious cherubs overshadowing the propitiatory cover.<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> But now is not the time to speak of these things in detail.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After these things were constructed this way, the priests enter the first tent compartment <span id="page1608" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1608" data-before-text="1608"></span>regularly to perform the sacred services; <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> but the high priest enters alone into the second compartment once a year, not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins that the people committed in ignorance. <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Thus the holy spirit makes it clear that the way into the holy place had not yet been revealed while the first tent was standing. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> This tent is an illustration for the present time, and according to this arrangement, both gifts and sacrifices are offered. However, these are not able to make the conscience of the man doing sacred service perfect. <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They have to do only with foods and drinks and various ceremonial washings.<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> They were legal requirements concerning the body and were imposed until the appointed time to set things straight.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos21667"></span><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> However, when Christ came as a high priest of the good things that have already taken place, he passed through the greater and more perfect tent not made with hands, that is, not of this creation. <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He entered into the holy place, not with the blood of goats and of young bulls, but with his own blood, once for all time, and obtained an everlasting deliverance<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> for us. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For if the blood of goats and of bulls and the ashes of a heifer<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> sprinkled on those who have been defiled sanctifies for the cleansing of the flesh, <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> how much more will the blood of the Christ, who through an everlasting spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse our consciences from dead works so that we may render sacred service to the living God?</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos22431"></span><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> That is why he is a mediator of a new covenant, in order that because a death has occurred for their release by ransom from the transgressions under the former covenant, those who have been called may receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For where there is a covenant, the death of the human covenanter needs to be established, <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> because a covenant is valid at death, since it is not in force as long as the human covenanter is living. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Consequently, neither was the former covenant put into effect<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> without blood. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For when Moses had spoken every commandment of the Law to all the people, he took the blood of the young bulls and of the goats, with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> and all the people, <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> saying: “This is the blood of the covenant that God has commanded you to keep.” <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He likewise sprinkled the tent and all the vessels of the holy service<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> with the blood. <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Yes, according to the Law nearly all things are cleansed with blood, and unless blood is poured out no forgiveness takes place.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Therefore, it was necessary for the typical representations of the things in the heavens to be cleansed by these means, but the heavenly things require far better sacrifices. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For Christ did not enter into a holy place made with hands, which is a copy of the reality, but into heaven itself, so that he now appears before<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> God on our behalf. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> This was not done to offer himself often, as when the high priest enters into the <span id="page1609" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1609" data-before-text="1609"></span>holy place from year to year with blood that is not his own. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Otherwise, he would have to suffer often from the founding of the world. But now he has manifested himself once for all time at the conclusion of the systems of things<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> to do away with sin through the sacrifice of himself. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And just as it is reserved for men to die once for all time, but after this to receive a judgment, <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> so also the Christ was offered once for all time to bear the sins of many; and the second time that he appears it will be apart from sin,<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> and he will be seen by those earnestly looking for him for their salvation.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p127" data-pid="127"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:2</span></a> Or “the showbread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p128" data-pid="128"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:5</span></a> Or “the place of atonement.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p129" data-pid="129"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:10</span></a> Lit., “various baptisms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p130" data-pid="130"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:12</span></a> Lit., “ransoming; redemption.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p131" data-pid="131"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:13</span></a> Or “young cow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p132" data-pid="132"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:18</span></a> Lit., “inaugurated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:19</span></a> Or “scroll.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:21</span></a> Or “the public service.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p135" data-pid="135"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:24</span></a> Lit., “before the face of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p136" data-pid="136"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:26</span></a> Or “the ages.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p137" data-pid="137"><a href="1001061162-split9.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 9:28</span></a> Or “it will not be to deal with sin.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
