<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_9.xhtml">1 - 41</a></p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="pos45538"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>As he was passing along, he saw a man who had been blind from birth. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And his disciples asked him: “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, so that he was born blind?” <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “Neither this man sinned nor his parents, but it was so that the works of God might be made manifest in his case. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> We must do the works of the One who sent me while it is day; the night is coming when no man can work. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> As long as I am in the world, I am the world’s light.” <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After he said these things, he spat on the ground and made a paste with the saliva, and he smeared the paste on the man’s eyes <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and said to him: “Go wash in the pool of Si·loʹam” (which is translated “Sent Forth”). And he went and washed, and came back seeing.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then the neighbors and those who formerly used to see <span id="page1440" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1440" data-before-text="1440"></span>that he was a beggar began to say: “This is the man who used to sit and beg, is it not?” <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Some were saying: “This is he.” Others were saying: “No, but he looks like him.” The man kept saying: “I am he.” <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So they asked him: “How, then, were your eyes opened?” <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He answered: “The man called Jesus made a paste and smeared it on my eyes and said to me, ‘Go to Si·loʹam and wash.’ So I went and washed and gained sight.” <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At this they said to him: “Where is that man?” He said: “I do not know.”</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos46866"></span><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> They led the formerly blind man to the Pharisees. <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Incidentally, the day that Jesus made the paste and opened his eyes was the Sabbath. <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So this time the Pharisees also began asking the man how he gained sight. He said to them: “He put a paste on my eyes, and I washed, and I can see.” <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Some of the Pharisees then began to say: “This is not a man from God, for he does not observe the Sabbath.” Others said: “How can a man who is a sinner perform signs of that sort?” So there was a division among them. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And again they said to the blind man: “What do you say about him, since it was your eyes that he opened?” The man said: “He is a prophet.”</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had gained sight, until they called the parents of the man who could now see. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And they asked them: “Is this your son who you say was born blind? How, then, does he now see?” <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> His parents answered: “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But how it is that he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him. He is of age. He must speak for himself.” <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> His parents said these things because they were in fear of the Jews, for the Jews had already come to an agreement that if anyone acknowledged him as Christ, that person should be expelled from the synagogue. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> This is why his parents said: “He is of age. Question him.”</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So a second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him: “Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.” <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He answered: “Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that I was blind, but now I can see.” <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then they said to him: “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?” <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> He answered them: “I told you already, and yet you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You do not want to become his disciples also, do you?” <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> At this they scornfully told him: “You are a disciple of that man, but we are disciples of Moses. <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he is from.” <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The man answered them: “This is certainly amazing, that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does his will, he listens to this one. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> From of old it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of one born blind. <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> If this man were not from God, he could do nothing at all.” <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> In answer they said to him: “You were altogether born in sin, and yet are you teaching us?” And they threw him out!</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos49550"></span><span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and on finding him, he said: “Are you putting faith in the Son of man?” <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The man answered: “And who is he, sir, so that I may put faith in him?” <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “You have seen him, and <span id="page1441" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1441" data-before-text="1441"></span>in fact, he is the one speaking with you.” <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> He said: “I do put faith in him, Lord.” And he did obeisance<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> to him. <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Jesus then said: “For this judgment I came into this world, that those not seeing might see and those seeing might become blind.” <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and they said to him: “We are not blind also, are we?” <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “If you were blind, you would have no sin. But now you say, ‘We see.’ Your sin remains.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p194" data-pid="194"><a href="1001061147-split9.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 9:38</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
