<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 John</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061167"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 John</a> <a href="bibleversenav63_1.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1635" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1635" data-before-text="1635"></span><strong>THE SECOND OF JOHN</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos70"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><strong><sup>1</sup></strong> The older man<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to the chosen lady and to her children, whom I truly love, and not only I but also all those who have come to know the truth, <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> because of the truth that remains in us and will be with us forever. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> There will be with us undeserved kindness, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, with truth and love.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos440"></span><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I rejoice very much because I have found some of your children walking in the truth, just as we received commandment from the Father. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So now I request you, lady, that we love one another. (I am writing you, not a new commandment, but one that we had from the beginning.) <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And this is what love means, that we go on walking according to his commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, that you should go on walking in it. <span id="pos913"></span><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those not acknowledging Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Look out for yourselves, so that you do not lose the things <span id="page1636" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1636" data-before-text="1636"></span>we have worked to produce, but that you may obtain a full reward. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Everyone who pushes ahead and does not remain in the teaching of the Christ does not have God. The one who does remain in this teaching is the one who has both the Father and the Son. <span id="pos1396"></span><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your homes or say a greeting to him. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For the one who says a greeting to him is a sharer in his wicked works.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1601"></span><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Although I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to come to you and to speak with you face-to-face, so that your joy may be in full measure.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The children of your sister, the chosen one, send you their greetings.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p8" data-pid="8"><a href="1001061167.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 John 1</span></a> Or “The elder.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
