<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_22.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p198" data-pid="198" class="p198 sb"><span id="pos87950"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>“If a man steals a bull or a sheep and he slaughters or sells it, he is to compensate with five bulls for the bull and four sheep for the sheep.</p>
<p id="p199" data-pid="199" class="p199 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> (“If a thief is found in the act of breaking in and he gets struck and dies, there is no bloodguilt for him. <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But if it happens after sunrise, there is bloodguilt for him.)</p>
<p id="p200" data-pid="200" class="p200 sb">“He must make compensation. If he has nothing, then he must be sold for the things he stole. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If what he stole is found alive in his possession, whether it is a bull or a donkey or a sheep, he is to make double compensation.</p>
<p id="p201" data-pid="201" class="p201 sb"><span id="pos88509"></span><span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “If anyone puts his animals out to graze in a field or a vineyard and lets them graze in someone else’s field, he is to make compensation with the best of his own field or with the best of his own vineyard.</p>
<p id="p202" data-pid="202" class="p202 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “If a fire starts and spreads to thornbushes and it causes sheaves or standing grain or a field to be consumed, the one who started the fire must make compensation for what was burned.</p>
<p id="p203" data-pid="203" class="p203 sb"><span id="pos88903"></span><span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “If a man gives his fellow man money or articles to keep and these are stolen from the fellow man’s house, if the thief is found, he must make double compensation. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> If the thief is not found, the owner of the house must be brought before the true God in order to determine whether he put his hand on the goods of his fellow man. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In all cases of illegal possession of goods, concerning a bull, a donkey, a sheep, a garment, or anything lost of which he may say, ‘This is mine!’ both parties will present their case before the true God. The one whom God pronounces guilty is to make double compensation to his fellow man.</p>
<p id="p204" data-pid="204" class="p204 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “If a man gives his fellow man a donkey or a bull or a sheep or any domestic animal to keep and it dies or gets maimed or gets led away while nobody is looking, <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> there should be an oath made between them before Jehovah, that he did not lay his hand on the goods of his fellow man; and the owner must accept it. The other man is not to make compensation. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But if the animal has been stolen from him, he is to make compensation to its owner. <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> If it was torn by a wild animal, he is to bring it as evidence. He is not to make compensation for something torn by a wild animal.</p>
<p id="p205" data-pid="205" class="p205 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “But if anybody asks to borrow an animal from his fellow man and it gets maimed or it dies while its owner is not with it, the man who borrowed it must make compensation. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> If its owner is with it, he is not to make compensation. If it was hired, the money paid for the hire is the compensation.</p>
<p id="p206" data-pid="206" class="p206 sb"><span id="pos90445"></span><span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Now if a man seduces a virgin who is not engaged and he lies down with her, he must pay the bride-price for her to become his wife. <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If her father absolutely refuses to give her to him, he is to pay the money at the rate of the bride-price.</p>
<p id="p207" data-pid="207" class="p207 sb"><span id="pos90701"></span><span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “You must not allow a sorceress to live.</p>
<p id="p208" data-pid="208" class="p208 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Anyone lying down with an animal must surely be put to death.</p>
<p id="p209" data-pid="209" class="p209 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Whoever sacrifices to any gods but Jehovah alone is to be devoted to destruction.</p>
<p id="p210" data-pid="210" class="p210 sb"><span id="page143" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="143" data-before-text="143"></span><span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “You must not mistreat a foreign resident or oppress him, for you were foreign residents in the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p211" data-pid="211" class="p211 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “You must not afflict any widow or fatherless child.<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> If you afflict him at all, so that he cries out to me, I will unfailingly hear his outcry; <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> and my anger will blaze, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives will become widows, and your children will be fatherless.</p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “If you lend money to anyone poor<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> of my people, someone who is dwelling with you, you must not become like a moneylender<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> to him. You must not charge him interest.</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “If you seize the garment of your fellow man as security for a loan,<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> you are to return it to him by sunset. <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For it is his only covering, his clothing to cover his body;<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> in what will he lie down to sleep? When he cries out to me, I will certainly hear, for I am compassionate.<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a></p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “You must not curse<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> God nor curse a chieftain<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> among your people.</p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “You must not hesitate to make offerings from your abundant produce and the overflow of your presses.<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> The firstborn of your sons you are to give to me. <span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> This is what you should do with your bull and your sheep: Seven days it will continue with its mother. On the eighth day, you are to give it to me.</p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “You should prove yourselves holy people to me, and you must not eat the flesh of anything in the field that has been torn by a wild animal. You should throw it to the dogs.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p496" data-pid="496"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:22</span></a> Or “orphan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p497" data-pid="497"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:25</span></a> Or “afflicted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p498" data-pid="498"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:25</span></a> Or “usurer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p499" data-pid="499"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:26</span></a> Or “as a pledge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p500" data-pid="500"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:27</span></a> Lit., “skin.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p501" data-pid="501"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:27</span></a> Or “gracious.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p502" data-pid="502"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:28</span></a> Or “revile.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p503" data-pid="503"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:28</span></a> Or “ruler.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p504" data-pid="504"><a href="1001061106-split22.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 22:29</span></a> That is, oil presses and winepresses.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
