<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_17.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="pos82614"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>They now traveled through Am·phipʹo·lis and Ap·ol·loʹni·a and came to Thes·sa·lo·niʹca, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So according to Paul’s custom he went inside to them, and for three sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures, <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> explaining and proving by references that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, saying: “This is the Christ, this Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you.” <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As a result, some of them became believers and associated themselves with Paul and Silas, and so did a great multitude of the Greeks who worshipped God, along with quite a few of the principal women.</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But the Jews, getting jealous, gathered together some wicked men who were loitering at the marketplace and formed a mob and proceeded to throw the city into an uproar. They assaulted the house of Jaʹson and were seeking to have Paul and Silas brought out to the mob. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When they did not find them, they dragged Jaʹson and some of the brothers to the city rulers, crying out: “These men who have overturned<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> the inhabited earth are present here also, <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and Jaʹson has received them as his guests. All these men act in opposition to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king, Jesus.” <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When they heard these things, the crowd and the city rulers were alarmed; <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and after taking sufficient security<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> from Jaʹson and the others, they let them go.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos84033"></span><span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Immediately by night the brothers sent both Paul and Silas to Be·roeʹa. On arriving, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thes·sa·lo·niʹca, for they accepted the word with the greatest eagerness of mind, carefully examining the Scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Therefore, many of them became believers, and so did quite a few of the reputable Greek women as well as some of the men. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But when the Jews from Thes·sa·lo·niʹca learned that the word of God was also being proclaimed by Paul in Be·roeʹa, they came there to incite and agitate the crowds. <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then the brothers immediately sent Paul away to the sea, but both Silas and Timothy remained behind there. <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> However, those accompanying Paul brought him as far as Athens, and they departed after receiving instructions that Silas and Timothy should come to Paul as quickly as possible.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos84984"></span><span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit within him became irritated on seeing that the city was full of idols. <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he began to reason in the synagogue with the Jews and the other people who worshipped God and every day in the marketplace with those who happened to be on hand. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But some of both the Ep·i·cu·reʹan and the Stoʹic philosophers began disputing with him, and some were saying: “What is it this chatterer would like to tell?” Others: “He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities.” This was because <span id="page1488" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1488" data-before-text="1488"></span>he was declaring the good news of Jesus and the resurrection. <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So they took hold of him and led him to the Ar·e·opʹa·gus, saying: “Can we get to know what this new teaching is that you are speaking about? <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For you are introducing some things that are strange to our ears, and we want to know what these things mean.” <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In fact, all Athenians and the foreigners staying<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> there would spend their leisure time doing nothing else but telling or listening to something new. <span id="pos86025"></span><span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Paul now stood in the midst of the Ar·e·opʹa·gus and said:</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb">“Men of Athens, I see that in all things you seem to be more given to the fear of the deities<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> than others are. <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For instance, while passing along and carefully observing your objects of veneration,<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> I found even an altar on which had been inscribed ‘To an Unknown God.’ Therefore, what you are unknowingly worshipping, this I am declaring to you. <span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The God who made the world and all the things in it, being, as he is, Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in handmade temples; <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> nor is he served by human hands as if he needed anything, because he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And he made out of one man every nation of men to dwell on the entire surface of the earth, and he decreed the appointed times and the set limits of where men would dwell, <span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> so that they would seek God, if they might grope for him and really find him, although, in fact, he is not far off from each one of us. <span id="chapter17_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> For by him we have life and move and exist, even as some of your own poets have said, ‘For we are also his children.’<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a></p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Therefore, since we are the children<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> of God, we should not think that the Divine Being is like gold or silver or stone, like something sculptured by the art and design of humans. <span id="chapter17_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> True, God has overlooked the times of such ignorance; but now he is declaring to all people everywhere that they should repent. <span id="chapter17_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Because he has set a day on which he purposes to judge the inhabited earth in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and he has provided a guarantee to all men by resurrecting him from the dead.”</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now when they heard of a resurrection of the dead, some began to scoff, while others said: “We will hear you again about this.” <span id="chapter17_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So Paul left them, <span id="chapter17_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> but some men joined him and became believers. Among them were Di·o·nysʹi·us, who was a judge of the court of the Ar·e·opʹa·gus, and a woman named Damʹa·ris, and others besides them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p378" data-pid="378"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:6</span></a> Or “stirred up trouble in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:9</span></a> Or “after taking bail.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:21</span></a> Or “visiting.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:22</span></a> Or “more religious.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:23</span></a> Or “worship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:28</span></a> Or “progeny.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061148-split17.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 17:29</span></a> Or “progeny.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
