<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061162"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Hebrews</a>  <a href="biblechapternav58.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav58_6.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos11430"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>Therefore, now that we have moved beyond the primary doctrine about the Christ, let us press on to maturity, not laying a foundation again, namely, repentance from dead works and faith in God, <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> the teaching on <span id="page1605" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1605" data-before-text="1605"></span>baptisms and the laying on of the hands, the resurrection of the dead and everlasting judgment. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And this we will do, if God indeed permits.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos11799"></span><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For as regards those who were once enlightened and who have tasted the heavenly free gift and who have become partakers of holy spirit <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and who have tasted the fine word of God and powers of the coming system of things,<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> but have fallen away, it is impossible to revive them again to repentance, because they nail the Son of God to the stake again for themselves and expose him to public shame. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For the ground receives a blessing from God when it drinks in the rain that frequently falls on it and then produces vegetation useful to those for whom it is cultivated. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But if it produces thorns and thistles, it is rejected and is near to being cursed, and in the end it will be burned.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos12504"></span><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But in your case, beloved ones, we are convinced of better things, things related to salvation, even though we are speaking in this way. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you showed for his name by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But we desire each one of you to show the same industriousness so as to have the full assurance of the hope down to the end, <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> so that you may not become sluggish, but be imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos13061"></span><span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For when God made his promise to Abraham, since he could not swear by anyone greater, he swore by himself, <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> saying: “I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply you.” <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So after Abraham had shown patience, he obtained this promise. <span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For men swear by someone greater, and their oath is the end of every dispute, since it is a legal guarantee to them. <span id="pos13445"></span><span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In this same way, when God decided to demonstrate more clearly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose,<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> he guaranteed it<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> with an oath, <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> in order that through two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled to the refuge may have strong encouragement to take firm hold of the hope set before us. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> We have this hope as an anchor for the soul,<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> both sure and firm, and it enters in within the curtain, <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> where a forerunner has entered in our behalf, Jesus, who has become a high priest in the manner of Mel·chizʹe·dek forever.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p108" data-pid="108"><a href="1001061162-split6.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 6:5</span></a> Or “the coming age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p109" data-pid="109"><a href="1001061162-split6.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 6:17</span></a> Or “counsel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p110" data-pid="110"><a href="1001061162-split6.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 6:17</span></a> Or “stepped in.” Lit., “mediated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p111" data-pid="111"><a href="1001061162-split6.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 6:19</span></a> Or “for our lives.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
