<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_7.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="pos29528"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>Now the sons of Isʹsa·char were Toʹla, Puʹah, Jaʹshub, and Shimʹron—four. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And the sons of Toʹla were Uzʹzi, Re·phaʹiah, Jeʹri·el, Jahʹmai, Ibʹsam, and She·muʹel, the heads of their paternal houses. Descended from Toʹla were mighty warriors, whose number in the days of David was 22,600. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And the descendants<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> of Uzʹzi were Iz·ra·hiʹah and the sons of Iz·ra·hiʹah: Miʹcha·el, O·ba·diʹah, Joel, and Is·shiʹah—all five of them were chiefs.<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And with them by their descendants, according to their paternal houses, there were 36,000 soldiers in their army available for war, for they had many wives and sons. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And their brothers of all the families of Isʹsa·char were mighty warriors, 87,000 as listed in the genealogical enrollment.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos30275"></span><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The sons of Benjamin were Beʹla, Beʹcher, and Je·diʹa·el—three. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the sons of Beʹla were Ezʹbon, Uzʹzi, Uzʹzi·el, Jerʹi·moth, and Iʹri—five—heads of their paternal houses, mighty warriors, and 22,034 were in their genealogical enrollment. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And the sons of Beʹcher were Ze·miʹrah, Joʹash, E·li·eʹzer, Eli·o·eʹnai, Omʹri, Jerʹe·moth, A·biʹjah, Anʹa·thoth, and Alʹe·meth—all of these were the sons of Beʹcher. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Their genealogical enrollment by their descendants as respects the heads of their paternal houses was 20,200 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the sons of Je·diʹa·el were Bilʹhan and the sons of Bilʹhan: Jeʹush, Benjamin, Eʹhud, Che·naʹa·nah, Zeʹthan, Tarʹshish, and A·hishʹa·har. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> All of these were the sons of Je·diʹa·el, according to the heads of their forefathers, 17,200 mighty warriors ready to go out to the army for war.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The Shupʹpim and the Hupʹpim were the sons of Ir; the Huʹshim were the sons of Aʹher.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos31227"></span><span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The sons of Naphʹta·li were Jahʹzi·el, Guʹni, Jeʹzer, and Shalʹlum—descendants<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> of Bilʹhah.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="pos31328"></span><span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The sons of Ma·nasʹseh: Asʹri·el, whom his Syrian concubine bore. (She bore Maʹchir the father of Gilʹe·ad. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Maʹchir took a wife for Hupʹpim and for Shupʹpim, and the name of his sister was Maʹa·cah.) The name of the second was Ze·loʹphe·had, but Ze·loʹphe·had had daughters. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Maʹa·cah, Maʹchir’s wife, bore a son and named him Peʹresh; and the name of his brother was Sheʹresh; and his sons were Uʹlam and Reʹkem. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the son<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> of Uʹlam was Beʹdan. These were the sons of Gilʹe·ad son of Maʹchir son of Ma·nasʹseh. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And his sister was Ham·moʹle·cheth. She gave birth to Ishʹhod, Abi-eʹzer, and Mahʹlah. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And the sons of She·miʹda were A·hiʹan, Sheʹchem, Likʹhi, and A·niʹam.</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="page577" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="577" data-before-text="577"></span><span id="pos32045"></span><span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The sons of Eʹphra·im were Shuʹthe·lah, Beʹred his son, Taʹhath his son, E·le·aʹdah his son, Taʹhath his son, <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Zaʹbad his son, Shuʹthe·lah his son, Eʹzer, and Eʹle·ad. The men of Gath who were born in the land killed them because they went down to take their livestock. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Eʹphra·im their father carried on mourning for many days, and his brothers kept coming in to comfort him. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Afterward he had relations with his wife, and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. But he named him Be·riʹah<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> because it was with calamity that she was in his house. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And his daughter was Sheʹe·rah, who built Lower and Upper Beth-hoʹron and Uzʹzen-sheʹe·rah. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And there was Reʹphah his son, Reʹsheph, Teʹlah his son, Taʹhan his son, <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Laʹdan his son, Am·miʹhud his son, E·lishʹa·ma his son, <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Nun his son, and Joshua<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> his son.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Their possession and their settlements were Bethʹel and its dependent<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> towns, and to the east Naʹa·ran, and to the west Geʹzer and its dependent towns, and Sheʹchem and its dependent towns, as far as Ayʹyah<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> and its dependent towns; <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and next to the descendants of Ma·nasʹseh, Beth-sheʹan and its dependent towns, Taʹa·nach and its dependent towns, Me·gidʹdo and its dependent towns, and Dor and its dependent towns. In these the descendants of Joseph the son of Israel lived.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos33410"></span><span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The sons of Ashʹer were Imʹnah, Ishʹvah, Ishʹvi, and Be·riʹah, and their sister was Seʹrah. <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The sons of Be·riʹah were Heʹber and Malʹchi·el, who was the father of Birʹza·ith. <span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Heʹber became father to Japhʹlet, Shoʹmer, and Hoʹtham, and to Shuʹa their sister. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The sons of Japhʹlet were Paʹsach, Bimʹhal, and Ashʹvath. These were the sons of Japhʹlet. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The sons of Sheʹmer<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> were Aʹhi, Rohʹgah, Je·hubʹbah, and Aʹram. <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The sons of Heʹlem<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> his brother were Zoʹphah, Imʹna, Sheʹlesh, and Aʹmal. <span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The sons of Zoʹphah were Suʹah, Harʹne·pher, Shuʹal, Beʹri, Imʹrah, <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Beʹzer, Hod, Shamʹma, Shilʹshah, Ithʹran, and Be·eʹra. <span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> The sons of Jeʹther were Je·phunʹneh, Pisʹpah, and Aʹra. <span id="chapter7_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> The sons of Ulʹla were Aʹrah, Hanʹni·el, and Ri·ziʹa. <span id="chapter7_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> All of these were the sons of Ashʹer, heads of their paternal houses, select, mighty warriors, heads of the chieftains; and their number listed in the genealogical enrollment was 26,000 men in the army available for war.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:3</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:3</span></a> Lit., “heads.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:13</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:17</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:23</span></a> Meaning “With Calamity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:27</span></a> Or “Jehoshua,” meaning “Jehovah Is Salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:28</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:28</span></a> Or possibly, “Gaza,” though not the Gaza in Philistia.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:34</span></a> Also called Shomer in vs. 32.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061117-split7.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:35</span></a> Likely the same as “Hotham” in vs. 32.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
