<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_15.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="pos70309"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>In the 27th year of King Jer·o·boʹam<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> of Israel, Az·a·riʹah<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> the son of King Am·a·ziʹah of Judah became king. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He was 16 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 52 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·co·liʹah of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He continued to do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Am·a·ziʹah had done. <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, the high places were not removed, and the people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah afflicted the king, and he remained a leper until the day of his death; and he stayed in a separate house, while the king’s son Joʹtham was in charge of the house,<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> judging the people of the land. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Az·a·riʹah, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Az·a·riʹah was laid to rest with <span id="page547" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="547" data-before-text="547"></span>his forefathers, and they buried him with his forefathers in the City of David; and his son Joʹtham became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="pos71327"></span><span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In the 38th year of King Az·a·riʹah of Judah, Zech·a·riʹah the son of Jer·o·boʹam became king over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a, and he reigned for six months. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He did what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his forefathers had done. He did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Shalʹlum the son of Jaʹbesh conspired against him and struck him down at Ibʹle·am. After putting him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Zech·a·riʹah, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> That fulfilled Jehovah’s word spoken to Jeʹhu: “Four generations of your sons will sit on the throne of Israel.” And that is how it happened.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos72096"></span><span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Shalʹlum the son of Jaʹbesh became king in the 39th year of King Uz·ziʹah of Judah, and he reigned for a full month in Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Menʹa·hem the son of Gaʹdi came up from Tirʹzah to Sa·marʹi·a and struck down Shalʹlum the son of Jaʹbesh in Sa·marʹi·a. After putting him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Shalʹlum and the conspiracy that he formed, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel. <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> It was then that Menʹa·hem came from Tirʹzah and struck down Tiphʹsah and all who were in it and its territory, because it did not open its gates to him. He struck it down and ripped open its pregnant women.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos72805"></span><span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In the 39th year of King Az·a·riʹah of Judah, Menʹa·hem the son of Gaʹdi became king over Israel, and he reigned for ten years in Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from all the sins that Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat had caused Israel to commit, all his days. <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> King Pul of As·syrʹi·a came into the land, and Menʹa·hem gave Pul 1,000 talents<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> of silver in return for his support in strengthening his hold on the kingdom. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Menʹa·hem raised the silver from Israel by exacting it from the prominent, wealthy men. He gave the king of As·syrʹi·a 50 silver shekels<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> for each man. Then the king of As·syrʹi·a turned back and did not stay in the land. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Menʹa·hem, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then Menʹa·hem was laid to rest with his forefathers; and his son Pek·a·hiʹah became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="pos73791"></span><span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> In the 50th year of King Az·a·riʹah of Judah, Pek·a·hiʹah the son of Menʹa·hem became king over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a, and he reigned for two years. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then his adjutant Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah conspired against him and struck him down in Sa·marʹi·a in the fortified tower of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> with Arʹgob and A·riʹeh. He had 50 men of Gilʹe·ad with him; and after he put him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Pek·a·hiʹah, <span id="page548" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="548" data-before-text="548"></span>all that he did, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos74530"></span><span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> In the 52nd year of King Az·a·riʹah of Judah, Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah became king over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a, and he reigned for 20 years. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, and he did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In the days of King Peʹkah of Israel, King Tigʹlath-pil·eʹser of As·syrʹi·a invaded and captured Iʹjon, Aʹbel-beth-maʹa·cah, Ja·noʹah, Keʹdesh, Haʹzor, Gilʹe·ad, and Galʹi·lee, all the land of Naphʹta·li, and he took the inhabitants into exile in As·syrʹi·a. <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then Ho·sheʹa the son of Eʹlah formed a conspiracy against Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah, and he struck him and put him to death; and he became king in his place in the 20th year of Joʹtham the son of Uz·ziʹah. <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Peʹkah, all that he did, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos75477"></span><span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> In the second year of Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah the king of Israel, Joʹtham the son of King Uz·ziʹah of Judah became king. <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> He was 25 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 16 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·ruʹsha the daughter of Zaʹdok. <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> He kept doing what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Uz·ziʹah had done. <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> However, the high places were not removed, and the people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. He was the one who built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Joʹtham, what he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> In those days Jehovah began sending Reʹzin the king of Syria and Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah against Judah. <span id="chapter15_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then Joʹtham was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David his forefather. And his son Aʹhaz became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:1</span></a> That is, Jeroboam II.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:1</span></a> Meaning “Jehovah Has Helped.” He is called Uzziah at <a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#pos72096">2Ki 15:13;</a><a href="1001061118-split26.xhtml#pos93155"> 2Ch 26:1-23;</a><a href="1001061127-split6.xhtml#pos17201"> Isa 6:1</a>; and <a href="1001061142-split14.xhtml#pos31422">Zec 14:5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:5</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:19</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:20</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061116-split15.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:25</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
