<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_25.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p243" data-pid="243" class="p243 sb"><span id="pos103564"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward the Amʹmon·ites, and prophesy against them. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must say concerning the Amʹmon·ites, ‘Hear the word of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Because you said ‘Aha!’ against my sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was laid desolate, and against the house of Judah when they went into exile, <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> therefore I am giving you to the people of the East as a possession. They will set up their encampments<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> within you and pitch their tents among you. They will eat your fruitage, and they will drink your milk. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> I will make Rabʹbah a pasture ground for camels, and the land of the Amʹmon·ites a resting-place for the flock; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.”’”</p>
<p id="p244" data-pid="244" class="p244 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because you clapped your hands and stamped your feet and you<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> rejoiced over the land of Israel with such utter scorn, <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> therefore I will stretch out my hand against you to give you to the nations as something to plunder. I will cut you off from the peoples and destroy you from the lands. I will annihilate you, and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p245" data-pid="245" class="p245 sb"><span id="pos104816"></span><span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because Moʹab and Seʹir have said, “Look! The house of Judah is like all the other nations,” <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I am exposing Moʹab’s flank<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> at his frontier cities, the beauty<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> of his land, Beth-jeshʹi·moth, Baʹal-meʹon, and clear to <span id="page1168" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1168" data-before-text="1168"></span>Kir·i·a·thaʹim. <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I will give it along with the Amʹmon·ites as a possession to the people of the East, so that the Amʹmon·ites will not be remembered among the nations. <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And I will execute judgment in Moʹab, and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p246" data-pid="246" class="p246 sb"><span id="pos105363"></span><span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Eʹdom has acted vengefully against the house of Judah and has incurred great guilt in taking revenge on them; <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “I will also stretch out my hand against Eʹdom and cut off from it both man and livestock, and I will make it desolate. From Teʹman clear to Deʹdan, they will fall by the sword. <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> ‘I will take vengeance on Eʹdom by the hand of my people Israel. They will bring my anger and my wrath on Eʹdom, so that they experience my own vengeance,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’</p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sb"><span id="pos105975"></span><span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because of their unrelenting hostility, the Phi·lisʹtines have maliciously<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> sought to bring vengeance and destruction. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am stretching out my hand against the Phi·lisʹtines, and I will cut off the Cherʹe·thites and will destroy the remaining inhabitants of the seacoast. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I will execute on them great acts of vengeance with furious punishments, and they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I bring my vengeance on them.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p785" data-pid="785"><a href="1001061130-split25.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 25:4</span></a> Or “walled camps.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p786" data-pid="786"><a href="1001061130-split25.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 25:6</span></a> Or “your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p787" data-pid="787"><a href="1001061130-split25.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 25:9</span></a> Or “slope.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p788" data-pid="788"><a href="1001061130-split25.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 25:9</span></a> Or “decoration.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p789" data-pid="789"><a href="1001061130-split25.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 25:15</span></a> Or “with scorn in the soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
