<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_21.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p199" data-pid="199" class="p199 sb"><span id="pos120090"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>After these things, an incident took place concerning a vineyard that belonged to Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite; it was in Jezʹre·el, next to the palace of Aʹhab the king of Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Aʹhab said to Naʹboth: “Give me your vineyard for me to use as a vegetable garden, for it is near my house. Then I will give you a better vineyard to replace it. Or if you prefer, I will give you its value in money.” <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But Naʹboth said to Aʹhab: “It is unthinkable, from Jehovah’s standpoint, for me to give you the inheritance of my forefathers.” <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Aʹhab came into his house, sullen and dejected over the answer that Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite <span id="page519" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="519" data-before-text="519"></span>had given him when he said: “I will not give you the inheritance of my forefathers.” Then he lay down on his bed, kept his face turned away, and refused to eat.</p>
<p id="p200" data-pid="200" class="p200 sb"><span id="pos120899"></span><span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> His wife Jezʹe·bel came in to him and asked him: “Why are you<span id="footnotesource242"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote242">*</a> so sad that you refuse to eat?” <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He replied to her: “Because I said to Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite, ‘Give me your vineyard for money. Or if you prefer, let me give you another vineyard to replace it.’ But he said, ‘I will not give you my vineyard.’” <span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> His wife Jezʹe·bel said to him: “Are you not the one ruling as king over Israel? Get up, eat something, and let your heart be cheerful. I will give you the vineyard of Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite.” <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So she wrote letters in Aʹhab’s name and sealed them with his seal and sent the letters to the elders and the nobles who lived in Naʹboth’s city. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> She wrote in the letters: “Proclaim a fast, and have Naʹboth sit at the head of the people. <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And have two good-for-nothing men sit in front of him and testify against him, saying, ‘You have cursed God and the king!’ Then bring him out and stone him to death.”</p>
<p id="p201" data-pid="201" class="p201 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did just as was written in the letters that Jezʹe·bel sent to them. <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They proclaimed a fast and had Naʹboth sit at the head of the people. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then two of the good-for-nothing men came in and sat down in front of him and began to testify against Naʹboth in front of the people, saying: “Naʹboth has cursed God and the king!” After that they brought him to the outskirts of the city and stoned him to death. <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They now sent word to Jezʹe·bel, saying: “Naʹboth has been stoned to death.”</p>
<p id="p202" data-pid="202" class="p202 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> As soon as Jezʹe·bel heard that Naʹboth had been stoned to death, she said to Aʹhab: “Get up, take possession of the vineyard of Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite, which he refused to give you for money, for Naʹboth is no longer alive. He is dead.” <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As soon as Aʹhab heard that Naʹboth was dead, Aʹhab got up to go down to the vineyard of Naʹboth the Jezʹre·el·ite to take possession of it.</p>
<p id="p203" data-pid="203" class="p203 sb"><span id="pos122824"></span><span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But Jehovah’s word came to E·liʹjah the Tishʹbite, saying: <span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Get up, go down to meet Aʹhab the king of Israel, who is in Sa·marʹi·a. There he is in the vineyard of Naʹboth, where he has gone to take possession of it. <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You must tell him, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Have you murdered a man and also taken his property?”’<span id="footnotesource243"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote243">*</a> Then say to him, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naʹboth, the dogs will lick up your own blood.”’”</p>
<p id="p204" data-pid="204" class="p204 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Aʹhab said to E·liʹjah: “So you have found me, O my enemy!” He replied: “I have found you. ‘Because you are determined<span id="footnotesource244"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote244">*</a> to do what is bad in the eyes of Jehovah, <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> here I am bringing calamity upon you, and I will make a clean sweep after you and will annihilate from Aʹhab every male,<span id="footnotesource245"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote245">*</a> including the helpless and weak in Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And I will make your house like the house of Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat and like the house of Baʹa·sha the son of A·hiʹjah, for you have provoked my anger and have caused Israel to sin.’ <span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Also concerning <span id="page520" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="520" data-before-text="520"></span>Jezʹe·bel, Jehovah has said: ‘The dogs will eat up Jezʹe·bel in the plot of land of Jezʹre·el. <span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Anyone belonging to Aʹhab who dies in the city the dogs will eat up, and anyone who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat up. <span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Indeed, there has never been anyone like Aʹhab, who was so determined<span id="footnotesource246"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote246">*</a> to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, egged on by his wife Jezʹe·bel. <span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He acted in the most detestable way by going after the disgusting idols,<span id="footnotesource247"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote247">*</a> just as all the Amʹor·ites had done, whom Jehovah drove out from before the Israelites.’”</p>
<p id="p205" data-pid="205" class="p205 sb"><span id="pos124458"></span><span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As soon as Aʹhab heard these words, he ripped his garments apart and put sackcloth on his body; and he went on a fast and kept lying down in sackcloth and walking despondently. <span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Jehovah’s word then came to E·liʹjah the Tishʹbite: <span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Have you seen how Aʹhab has humbled himself on my account? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the calamity during his lifetime. I will bring the calamity upon his house in the days of his son.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote242"><p id="p464" data-pid="464"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource242">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:5</span></a> Lit., “is your spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote243"><p id="p465" data-pid="465"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource243">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:19</span></a> Lit., “taken possession?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote244"><p id="p466" data-pid="466"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource244">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:20</span></a> Lit., “you have sold yourself.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote245"><p id="p467" data-pid="467"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource245">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:21</span></a> Lit., “anyone urinating against a wall.” A Hebrew expression of contempt referring to males.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote246"><p id="p468" data-pid="468"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource246">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:25</span></a> Lit., “who sold himself.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote247"><p id="p469" data-pid="469"><a href="1001061115-split21.xhtml#footnotesource247">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 21:26</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
