<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 39</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">39</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_39.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p354" data-pid="354" class="p354 sb"><span id="pos165768"></span><span id="chapter39"></span><span id="chapter39_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>39</strong> </span>From the blue thread, the purple wool, and the scarlet material, they made finely woven garments for ministering in the holy place. They made the holy garments that were for Aaron, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p355" data-pid="355" class="p355 sb"><span id="pos165992"></span><span id="chapter39_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He made the ephʹod of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen. <span id="chapter39_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They hammered plates of gold into thin sheets, and he cut it into threads to work in with the blue thread, the purple wool, the scarlet material, and the fine linen, and it was embroidered. <span id="chapter39_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They made shoulder pieces for it that were joined at its two top edges. <span id="chapter39_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the woven belt,<span id="footnotesource276"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote276">*</a> which was attached to the ephʹod for tying it securely in position, was made of the same material, of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p356" data-pid="356" class="p356 sb"><span id="chapter39_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then they mounted the onyx stones in gold settings, and they engraved them with the names of the sons of Israel, as they would engrave a seal. <span id="chapter39_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He placed them on the shoulder pieces of the ephʹod as memorial stones for the sons of Israel, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="pos166884"></span><span id="chapter39_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he made the breastpiece with the workmanship of an embroiderer, like the workmanship of the ephʹod, out of gold, blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen. <span id="chapter39_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> It was square when doubled. They made the breastpiece, which, when doubled, was as long and as wide as the span of the hand.<span id="footnotesource277"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote277">*</a> <span id="chapter39_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They set four rows of stones in it. The first row was ruby, topaz, and emerald. <span id="chapter39_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The second row was turquoise, sapphire, and jasper. <span id="chapter39_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The third row was <em>leshʹem</em> stone,<span id="footnotesource278"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote278">*</a> agate, and amethyst. <span id="chapter39_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the fourth row was chrysʹo·lite, onyx, and jade. They were mounted in settings of gold. <span id="chapter39_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The stones corresponded to the names of the 12 sons of Israel, and the names were engraved like a seal, each name representing one of the 12 tribes.</p>
<p id="p357" data-pid="357" class="p357 sb"><span id="chapter39_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then they made wreathed chains on the breastpiece, like cords of pure gold. <span id="chapter39_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And they made two settings of gold and two rings of gold and attached the two rings to the two corners of the breastpiece. <span id="chapter39_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After that they put the two cords of gold through the two rings at the corners of the breastpiece. <span id="chapter39_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then they put the two ends of the two cords through the two settings and attached them to the shoulder pieces on the front of the ephʹod. <span id="chapter39_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Next they made two rings of gold and set them at the two ends on the inside edge of the breastpiece, facing the ephʹod. <span id="chapter39_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then they made two more rings of gold and put them on the front of the ephʹod, below the two shoulder pieces, close to where it is joined, above the woven belt<span id="footnotesource279"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote279">*</a> of the ephʹod. <span id="chapter39_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Finally, they tied the breastpiece with a blue cord from its rings to the rings of the ephʹod, in order to keep the breastpiece in its place on the ephʹod, above the woven belt,<span id="footnotesource280"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote280">*</a> just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p358" data-pid="358" class="p358 sb"><span id="page168" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="168" data-before-text="168"></span><span id="pos168673"></span><span id="chapter39_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then he made the sleeveless coat of the ephʹod, woven by a loom worker, all of blue thread. <span id="chapter39_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The opening of the sleeveless coat was in the middle of it, like the opening of a coat of mail. Its opening had a border around it, so that it would not be torn. <span id="chapter39_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Next they made on the hem of the sleeveless coat pomegranates of blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material, twisted together. <span id="chapter39_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And they made bells of pure gold and put the bells in between the pomegranates all around the hem of the sleeveless coat, in between the pomegranates; <span id="chapter39_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> they alternated a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the sleeveless coat, which was used for ministering, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p359" data-pid="359" class="p359 sb"><span id="pos169429"></span><span id="chapter39_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And they made the robes of fine linen, woven by a loom worker, for Aaron and his sons, <span id="chapter39_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and the turban of fine linen, the ornamental headgear of fine linen, the linen shorts<span id="footnotesource281"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote281">*</a> of fine twisted linen, <span id="chapter39_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and the sash of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material woven together, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p360" data-pid="360" class="p360 sb"><span id="pos169782"></span><span id="chapter39_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Finally, they made the shining plate, the holy sign of dedication,<span id="footnotesource282"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote282">*</a> out of pure gold and inscribed on it an inscription as one would engrave a seal: “Holiness belongs to Jehovah.” <span id="chapter39_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> They attached to it a cord made from blue thread in order to put it on the turban, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p361" data-pid="361" class="p361 sb"><span id="pos170097"></span><span id="chapter39_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So all the work for the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was completed, and the Israelites did everything that Jehovah had commanded Moses. They did just so.</p>
<p id="p362" data-pid="362" class="p362 sb"><span id="chapter39_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Then they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its equipment: its clasps, its panel frames, its bars and its pillars and its socket pedestals; <span id="chapter39_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> its covering of ram skins dyed red, its covering of sealskins, the curtain for the screen; <span id="chapter39_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> the ark of the Testimony and its poles and the cover; <span id="chapter39_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> the table, all its utensils and the showbread; <span id="chapter39_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> the lampstand of pure gold, its lamps, the row of lamps, and all its utensils and the oil for lighting; <span id="chapter39_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> the altar of gold, the anointing oil, the perfumed incense, the screen<span id="footnotesource283"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote283">*</a> for the entrance of the tent; <span id="chapter39_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> the altar of copper and its grating of copper, its poles, all its utensils, the basin and its stand; <span id="chapter39_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> the hanging curtains of the courtyard, its pillars and its socket pedestals, the screen<span id="footnotesource284"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote284">*</a> for the entrance of the courtyard, its tent cords and its tent pins and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting; <span id="chapter39_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> the finely woven garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for serving as priests.</p>
<p id="p363" data-pid="363" class="p363 sb"><span id="chapter39_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> According to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, that was how the Israelites did all the work. <span id="chapter39_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> When Moses inspected all their work, he saw that they had done it just as Jehovah had commanded; and Moses blessed them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote276"><p id="p655" data-pid="655"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource276">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:5</span></a> Or “waistband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote277"><p id="p656" data-pid="656"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource277">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:9</span></a> About 22.2 cm (8.75 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote278"><p id="p657" data-pid="657"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource278">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:12</span></a> An unidentified precious stone, possibly referring to amber, hyacinth, opal, or tourmaline.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote279"><p id="p658" data-pid="658"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource279">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:20</span></a> Or “waistband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote280"><p id="p659" data-pid="659"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource280">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:21</span></a> Or “waistband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote281"><p id="p660" data-pid="660"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource281">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:28</span></a> Or “undergarments.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote282"><p id="p661" data-pid="661"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource282">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:30</span></a> Or “the holy diadem.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote283"><p id="p662" data-pid="662"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource283">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:38</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote284"><p id="p663" data-pid="663"><a href="1001061106-split39.xhtml#footnotesource284">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 39:40</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
