<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_2.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos2885"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Solʹo·mon now gave the order to build a house for Jehovah’s name and a house<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> for his kingdom. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon enlisted 70,000 men as common laborers,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> 80,000 men as stonecutters in the mountains, and 3,600 as overseers over them. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Further, Solʹo·mon sent word to Hiʹram the king of Tyre: “Do for me as you did for David my father when you sent him cedarwood to build a house<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> to live in. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now I am building a house for the name of Jehovah my God, to sanctify it to him, to burn perfumed incense before him, and also for the constant layer bread<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> and the burnt offerings, morning and evening, on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and at the festival seasons of Jehovah our God. This is a lasting obligation for Israel. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The house that I am building will be great, for our God is greater than all the other gods. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And who is up to the task of building him a house? For the heavens and the heaven of the heavens cannot contain him, so who am I that I should build him a house except as a place for making sacrifices smoke before him? <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now send me a craftsman who is skilled in working in gold, silver, copper, iron, purple wool, crimson, and blue thread and who knows how to cut engravings. He will work in Judah and in Jerusalem with my skilled craftsmen, whom David my father has provided. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And send me timbers of cedar, juniper, and algum from Lebʹa·non, for I well know that your servants are experienced at cutting down the trees of Lebʹa·non. My servants will work along with your servants <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> to prepare for me great quantities of timber, for the house that I am to build will be extraordinarily great. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now look! I will supply the food for your servants, the woodcutters who cut down the trees: 20,000 cors<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> of wheat, 20,000 cors of barley, 20,000 baths<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of wine, and 20,000 baths of oil.”</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> At that Hiʹram the king of Tyre sent this written message <span id="page608" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="608" data-before-text="608"></span>to Solʹo·mon: “Because Jehovah loves his people, he has made you their king.” <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Hiʹram then said: “May Jehovah the God of Israel be praised, who made the heavens and the earth, because he has given to King David a wise son, endowed with discretion and understanding, who will build a house for Jehovah and a house for his kingdom. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now I am sending a skilled craftsman, endowed with understanding, Hiʹram-aʹbi, <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> who is the son of a Danʹite woman but whose father was a man of Tyre; he has experience in working in gold, silver, copper, iron, stones, timbers, purple wool, blue thread, fine fabric, and crimson. He can do every sort of engraving and make any design he is given. He will work with your own skilled craftsmen and the skilled craftsmen of my lord David your father. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now let my lord send the wheat, barley, oil, and wine he has promised to his servants. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And we will cut down trees from Lebʹa·non, as many as you need, and we will bring them to you as rafts by sea to Jopʹpa; and you will take them up to Jerusalem.”</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon then took a count of all the men who were foreign residents in the land of Israel, after the census taken by David his father, and there were found 153,600. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So he assigned 70,000 of them as common laborers,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> 80,000 as stonecutters in the mountains, and 3,600 as overseers for putting the people to work.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:2</span></a> Or “as burden bearers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:3</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:4</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:10</span></a> A cor equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:10</span></a> A bath equaled 22 L (5.81 gal). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061118-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 2:18</span></a> Or “as burden bearers.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
