<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061142"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_8.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="pos14592"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah of armies again came, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘I will be zealous for Zion with a great zeal, and with great wrath I will be zealous for her.’”</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos14785"></span><span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says, ‘I will return to Zion and reside in Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be called the city of truth,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> and the mountain of Jehovah of armies, the holy mountain.’”</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Old men and women will again sit in the public squares of Jerusalem, each with his staff in his hand because of his great age.<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the public squares of the city will be <span id="page1292" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1292" data-before-text="1292"></span>filled with boys and girls playing there.’”</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Although it may seem too difficult to the remaining ones of this people in those days, should it seem too difficult also to me?’ declares Jehovah of armies.”</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Here I am saving my people from the lands of the east and the west.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And I will bring them in, and they will reside in Jerusalem; and they will become my people, and I will become their God in truth<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> and in righteousness.’”</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Let your hands be strong,<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> you who now hear these words from the mouth of the prophets, the same words that were spoken on the day the foundation of the house of Jehovah of armies was laid for the temple to be built. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For before that time, there were no wages being paid either for man or for beast; and it was not safe to come and go because of the adversary, for I turned all men one against another.’</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘But now I will not deal with the remaining ones of this people as in the former days,’ declares Jehovah of armies. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> ‘For the seed of peace will be sown; the vine will produce its fruit and the earth its yield, and the heavens will give their dew; and I will cause the remaining ones of this people to inherit all these things. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And just as you became an object of cursing among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you, and you will become a blessing. Do not be afraid! Let your hands be strong.’<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘“Just as I had determined to bring calamity on you because your forefathers made me indignant,” says Jehovah of armies, “and I felt no regret, <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> so at this time I have determined to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not be afraid!”’</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos17035"></span><span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘These are the things you should do: Speak the truth with one another, and the judgments in your gates must promote truth and peace. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Do not scheme calamity against one another in your hearts, and do not love any false oath; for these are all things that I hate,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos17337"></span><span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah of armies again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘The fast of the fourth month, the fast of the fifth month, the fast of the seventh month, and the fast of the tenth month will be occasions for exultation and joy for the house of Judah—festivals of rejoicing. So love truth and peace.’</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘It will yet come to pass that peoples and the inhabitants of many cities will come; <span id="pos17816"></span><span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and the inhabitants of one city will go to those of another and say: “Let us earnestly go to beg for the favor<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> of Jehovah and to seek Jehovah of armies. I am also going.” <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And many peoples and mighty nations will come to seek Jehovah of armies in Jerusalem and to beg for the favor<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> of Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos18128"></span><span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘In those days ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold, yes, <span id="page1293" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1293" data-before-text="1293"></span>they will take firm hold of the robe<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> of a Jew,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> saying: “We want to go with you, for we have heard that God is with you people.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p188" data-pid="188"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:3</span></a> Or “faithfulness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p189" data-pid="189"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:4</span></a> Lit., “because of the multitude of days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p190" data-pid="190"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:7</span></a> Or “from the land of the sunrise and the land of the setting sun.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p191" data-pid="191"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:8</span></a> Or “faithfulness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p192" data-pid="192"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:9</span></a> Or “Take courage.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p193" data-pid="193"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:13</span></a> Or “Take courage.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p194" data-pid="194"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:21</span></a> Or “soften the face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p195" data-pid="195"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:22</span></a> Or “soften the face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p196" data-pid="196"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:23</span></a> Or “extremity of the garment.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p197" data-pid="197"><a href="1001061142-split8.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 8:23</span></a> Lit., “a Jewish man.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
