<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">36</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_36.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="pos142186"></span><span id="chapter36"></span><span id="chapter36_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>36</strong> </span>Then the people of the land took Jo·siʹah’s son Je·hoʹa·haz and made him king in Jerusalem in place of his father. <span id="chapter36_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Je·hoʹa·haz was 23 years old when he became king, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter36_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, the king of Egypt deposed him in Jerusalem and fined the land 100 silver talents<span id="footnotesource251"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote251">*</a> and a gold talent. <span id="pos142522"></span><span id="chapter36_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Furthermore, the king of Egypt made Je·hoʹa·haz’ brother E·liʹa·kim king over Judah and Jerusalem and changed his name to Je·hoiʹa·kim; but Neʹcho took his brother Je·hoʹa·haz and brought him to Egypt.</p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Je·hoiʹa·kim was 25 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 11 years in Jerusalem. He continued to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah his God. <span id="chapter36_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon came up against him in order to bind him with two copper fetters to take him off to Babylon. <span id="chapter36_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar took some of the utensils of the house of Jehovah to Babylon and put them in his palace in Babylon. <span id="chapter36_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Je·hoiʹa·kim, the detestable things that he did and what was found against him, it is written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and of Judah; and his son Je·hoiʹa·chin became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="pos143388"></span><span id="chapter36_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Je·hoiʹa·chin was 18 years old when he became king, and he reigned for three months and ten days in Jerusalem; and he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. <span id="chapter36_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At the start of the year,<span id="footnotesource252"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote252">*</a> King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar sent to have him brought to Babylon, along with valuable articles of the house of Jehovah. And he made his father’s brother Zed·e·kiʹah king over Judah and Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p225" data-pid="225" class="p225 sb"><span id="pos143788"></span><span id="chapter36_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Zed·e·kiʹah was 21 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 11 years in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter36_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah his God. He did not humble himself before the prophet Jeremiah, who spoke at the order of Jehovah. <span id="chapter36_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He also rebelled against King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar, who had made him take an oath by God, and he remained stubborn<span id="footnotesource253"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote253">*</a> and hardhearted and refused to turn to Jehovah the God of Israel. <span id="chapter36_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> All the chiefs of the priests as well as the people were exceedingly unfaithful, practicing all the detestable things of the nations, and they defiled the house of Jehovah that he had sanctified in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p226" data-pid="226" class="p226 sb"><span id="page653" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="653" data-before-text="653"></span><span id="pos144454"></span><span id="chapter36_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Jehovah the God of their forefathers kept warning them by means of his messengers, warning them again and again, because he felt compassion for his people and for his dwelling place. <span id="chapter36_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But they kept ridiculing the messengers of the true God, and they despised his words and mocked his prophets, until the rage of Jehovah came up against his people, until they were beyond healing.</p>
<p id="p227" data-pid="227" class="p227 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he brought against them the king of the Chal·deʹans, who killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary; he felt no compassion for young man or virgin, old or infirm. God gave everything into his hand. <span id="chapter36_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> All the utensils of the house of the true God, great and small, as well as the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king and his princes, everything he brought to Babylon. <span id="chapter36_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He burned down the house of the true God, tore down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its fortified towers with fire, and destroyed everything of value. <span id="chapter36_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He carried off captive to Babylon those who escaped the sword, and they became servants to him and his sons until the kingdom<span id="footnotesource254"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote254">*</a> of Persia began to reign, <span id="chapter36_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> to fulfill Jehovah’s word spoken by Jeremiah, until the land had paid off its sabbaths. All the days it lay desolate it kept sabbath, to fulfill 70 years.</p>
<p id="p228" data-pid="228" class="p228 sb"><span id="pos145781"></span><span id="chapter36_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> In the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, in order that Jehovah’s word spoken by Jeremiah would be fulfilled, Jehovah stirred the spirit of King Cyrus of Persia to make a proclamation throughout his kingdom, which he also put in writing, saying: <span id="chapter36_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “This is what King Cyrus of Persia says, ‘Jehovah the God of the heavens has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has commissioned me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote251"><p id="p480" data-pid="480"><a href="1001061118-split36.xhtml#footnotesource251">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 36:3</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote252"><p id="p481" data-pid="481"><a href="1001061118-split36.xhtml#footnotesource252">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 36:10</span></a> Possibly, in the spring.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote253"><p id="p482" data-pid="482"><a href="1001061118-split36.xhtml#footnotesource253">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 36:13</span></a> Lit., “he hardened his neck.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote254"><p id="p483" data-pid="483"><a href="1001061118-split36.xhtml#footnotesource254">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 36:20</span></a> Or “royalty.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
