<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">32</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_32.xhtml">1 - 42</a></p>
<p id="p364" data-pid="364" class="p364 sb"><span id="pos156347"></span><span id="chapter32"></span><span id="chapter32_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>32</strong> </span>Now the sons of Reuʹben and the sons of Gad had very large quantities of livestock, and they saw that the lands of Jaʹzer and Gilʹe·ad were a good region for livestock. <span id="chapter32_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuʹben approached Moses, El·e·aʹzar the priest, and the chieftains of the assembly and said: <span id="chapter32_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Atʹa·roth, Diʹbon, Jaʹzer, Nimʹrah, Heshʹbon, E·le·aʹleh, Seʹbam, Neʹbo, and Beʹon, <span id="chapter32_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> the land that Jehovah defeated before the assembly of Israel, is a good land for livestock, and your servants have much livestock.” <span id="chapter32_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They continued: “If we have found favor in your eyes, let this be the land given to your servants as a possession. Do not make us cross the Jordan.”</p>
<p id="p365" data-pid="365" class="p365 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Moses said to the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuʹben: “Are your brothers to go to war while you yourselves keep dwelling here? <span id="chapter32_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Why should you discourage the people of Israel from crossing into the land that Jehovah is certain to give them? <span id="chapter32_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> That is what your fathers did when I sent them from Kaʹdesh-barʹne·a to see the land. <span id="chapter32_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When they went up to the Valley<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> of Eshʹcol and saw the land, they discouraged the people of Israel from going into the land that Jehovah was to give them. <span id="chapter32_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jehovah’s anger blazed on that day so that he swore: <span id="chapter32_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> ‘The men who came up out of Egypt from 20 years old and up will not see the land of which I have sworn to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, because they have not followed me wholeheartedly— <span id="chapter32_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> except Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh the Kenʹiz·zite and Joshua the son of Nun, because they have followed Jehovah wholeheartedly.’ <span id="chapter32_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel and he made them wander about in the wilderness for 40 years, until all the generation that was <span id="page266" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="266" data-before-text="266"></span>doing evil in the eyes of Jehovah came to its end. <span id="chapter32_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now here you have risen in the place of your fathers as a brood of sinful men who increase the burning anger of Jehovah against Israel. <span id="chapter32_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> If you turn back from following him, he will certainly leave them again in the wilderness, and you will bring ruin to all this people.”</p>
<p id="p366" data-pid="366" class="p366 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They later approached him and said: “Let us build here stone pens for our livestock and cities for our children. <span id="chapter32_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But we will continue ready for battle and will go before the Israelites until we have brought them to their place, while our children will dwell in the fortified cities, safe from the inhabitants of the land. <span id="chapter32_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> We will not return to our houses until each of the Israelites has received his land as an inheritance. <span id="chapter32_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For we will not receive an inheritance with them on the other side of the Jordan and beyond, because we have received our inheritance on the east side of the Jordan.”</p>
<p id="p367" data-pid="367" class="p367 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Moses replied to them: “If you will do this: Take up arms before Jehovah for the war; <span id="chapter32_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and if every one of you takes up arms and crosses the Jordan before Jehovah as he drives away his enemies from before him <span id="chapter32_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> until the land is subdued before Jehovah, afterward you may return and be free from guilt before Jehovah and Israel. Then this land will become your possession before Jehovah. <span id="chapter32_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But if you do not do this, you will have sinned against Jehovah. In that case, know that your sin will catch up with you. <span id="chapter32_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So you may build cities for your children and pens for your flocks, but you must do what you have promised.”</p>
<p id="p368" data-pid="368" class="p368 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The sons of Gad and the sons of Reuʹben said this to Moses: “Your servants will do just as my lord is commanding. <span id="chapter32_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Our children, our wives, our livestock, and all our domestic animals will stay there in the cities of Gilʹe·ad, <span id="chapter32_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> but your servants will cross over, every man armed for battle to wage war before Jehovah, just as my lord is speaking.”</p>
<p id="p369" data-pid="369" class="p369 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So Moses gave a command concerning them to El·e·aʹzar the priest, to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the paternal houses of the tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter32_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moses said to them: “If the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuʹben cross over the Jordan with you, every man armed for the war before Jehovah, and the land is subdued before you, you will then give them the land of Gilʹe·ad as a possession. <span id="chapter32_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But if they do not take up arms and cross over with you, they will then settle among you in the land of Caʹnaan.”</p>
<p id="p370" data-pid="370" class="p370 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> To this the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuʹben answered: “What Jehovah has spoken to your servants is what we will do. <span id="chapter32_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> We will take up arms and cross over before Jehovah to the land of Caʹnaan, but the possession we are to inherit will be on this side of the Jordan.” <span id="chapter32_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So Moses gave to them—to the sons of Gad, the sons of Reuʹben, and to the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh the son of Joseph—the kingdom of Siʹhon the king of the Amʹor·ites and the kingdom of Og the king of Baʹshan, the land belonging to its cities in those territories, and the cities of the surrounding land.</p>
<p id="p371" data-pid="371" class="p371 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And the sons of Gad built<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> Diʹbon, Atʹa·roth, A·roʹer, <span id="chapter32_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Atʹroth-shoʹphan, Jaʹzer, Jogʹbe·hah, <span id="chapter32_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Beth-nimʹrah, and Beth-haʹran, fortified cities, and they built stone pens for <span id="page267" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="267" data-before-text="267"></span>the flocks. <span id="chapter32_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And the sons of Reuʹben built Heshʹbon, E·le·aʹleh, Kir·i·a·thaʹim, <span id="chapter32_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Neʹbo, and Baʹal-meʹon—their names being changed—and Sibʹmah; and they began to rename the cities that they rebuilt.</p>
<p id="p372" data-pid="372" class="p372 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> The sons of Maʹchir the son of Ma·nasʹseh marched against Gilʹe·ad and captured it and drove away the Amʹor·ites who were in it. <span id="chapter32_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> So Moses gave Gilʹe·ad to Maʹchir the son of Ma·nasʹseh, and he began dwelling in it. <span id="chapter32_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And Jaʹir the son of Ma·nasʹseh marched against them and captured their tent villages, and he began to call them Havʹvoth-jaʹir.<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> <span id="chapter32_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And Noʹbah marched against and captured Keʹnath and its dependent<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> towns, and he began to call it Noʹbah by his own name.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p630" data-pid="630"><a href="1001061108-split32.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 32:9</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p631" data-pid="631"><a href="1001061108-split32.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 32:34</span></a> Or “rebuilt.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p632" data-pid="632"><a href="1001061108-split32.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 32:41</span></a> Meaning “Tent Villages of Jair.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p633" data-pid="633"><a href="1001061108-split32.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 32:42</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
