<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_11.xhtml">1 - 57</a></p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos54942"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Now a man named Lazʹa·rus was sick; he was from Bethʹa·ny, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This was the Mary who poured perfumed oil on the Lord and wiped his feet dry with her hair; it was her brother Lazʹa·rus who was sick. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So his sisters sent a message to him, saying: “Lord, see! the one you have affection for is sick.” <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But when Jesus heard it, he said: “This sickness is not meant to end in death, but is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.”</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazʹa·rus. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, when he heard that Lazʹa·rus was sick, he actually remained in the place where he was for two more days. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then after this he said to the disciples: “Let us go into Ju·deʹa again.” <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The disciples said to him: “Rabbi, just lately the Ju·deʹans were seeking to stone you, and are you going there again?” <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jesus answered: “There are 12 hours of daylight, are there not? If anyone walks in daylight, he does not stumble into anything, because he sees the light of this world. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.”</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> After he said these things, he added: “Lazʹa·rus our friend has fallen asleep, but I am traveling there to awaken him.” <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The disciples then said to him: “Lord, if he is sleeping, he will get well.” <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jesus, however, had spoken about his death. But they imagined he was speaking about taking rest <span id="page1443" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1443" data-before-text="1443"></span>in sleep. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to them plainly: “Lazʹa·rus has died, <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and I rejoice for your sake that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.” <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So Thomas, who was called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples: “Let us also go, so that we may die with him.”</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="pos56716"></span><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When Jesus arrived, he found that Lazʹa·rus had already been in the tomb<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> for four days. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now Bethʹa·ny was near Jerusalem, about two miles<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> away. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went to meet him; but Mary kept sitting at home. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Martha then said to Jesus: “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Yet even now I know that whatever you ask God for, God will give you.” <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Your brother will rise.” <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Martha said to him: “I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.” <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who exercises faith in me, even though he dies, will come to life; <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> and everyone who is living and exercises faith in me will never die at all. Do you believe this?” <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> She said to him: “Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one coming into the world.” <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When she had said this, she went off and called Mary her sister, saying privately: “The Teacher is here and is calling you.” <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> On hearing this, she got up quickly and went to him.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Jesus had not yet come into the village, but he was still in the place where Martha had met him. <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> When the Jews who were with Mary in the house consoling her saw her get up quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> to weep there. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> When Mary arrived where Jesus was and caught sight of him, she fell at his feet and said to him: “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.” <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> When Jesus saw her weeping and the Jews who had come with her weeping, he groaned within himself<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> and became troubled. <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> He said: “Where have you laid him?” They said to him: “Lord, come and see.” <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Jesus gave way to tears. <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> At that the Jews began to say: “See, what affection he had for him!” <span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But some of them said: “Could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind man prevent this one from dying?”</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="pos58834"></span><span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then Jesus, after groaning again within himself, came to the tomb.<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> It was, in fact, a cave, and a stone was lying against it. <span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Jesus said: “Take the stone away.” Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him: “Lord, by now he must smell, for it has been four days.” <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Did I not tell you that if you would believe you would see the glory of God?” <span id="chapter11_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> So they took the stone away. Then Jesus raised his eyes heavenward and said: “Father, I thank you that you have heard me. <span id="chapter11_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> True, I knew that you always hear me; but I spoke on account of the crowd standing around, so that they may believe that you sent me.” <span id="chapter11_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice: “Lazʹa·rus, come out!” <span id="chapter11_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> The man who had been dead came out with his feet and hands bound with wrappings, and his face was wrapped <span id="page1444" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1444" data-before-text="1444"></span>with a cloth. Jesus said to them: “Free him and let him go.”</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="pos59768"></span><span id="chapter11_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Therefore, many of the Jews who had come to Mary and who saw what he did put faith in him, <span id="chapter11_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> but some of them went off to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. <span id="chapter11_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the Sanʹhe·drin together and said: “What are we to do, for this man performs many signs? <span id="chapter11_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> If we let him go on this way, they will all put faith in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> and our nation.” <span id="chapter11_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> But one of them, Caʹia·phas, who was high priest that year, said to them: “You do not know anything at all, <span id="chapter11_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> and you have not reasoned that it is to your benefit for one man to die in behalf of the people rather than for the whole nation to be destroyed.” <span id="chapter11_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> He did not say this, however, of his own originality, but because he was high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation, <span id="chapter11_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> and not only for the nation but also to gather together into one the children of God who were scattered about. <span id="chapter11_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> So from that day on they conspired to kill him.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Therefore, Jesus no longer walked about publicly among the Jews, but he departed from there to the region near the wilderness, to a city called Eʹphra·im, and he stayed there with the disciples. <span id="chapter11_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many people from the countryside went up to Jerusalem before the Passover to cleanse themselves ceremonially. <span id="chapter11_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> They were looking for Jesus, and they were saying to one another as they stood around in the temple: “What is your opinion? That he will not come to the festival at all?” <span id="chapter11_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> But the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone got to know where Jesus was, he should report it, so that they could seize<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p201" data-pid="201"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:17</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p202" data-pid="202"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:18</span></a> About three km. Lit., “about 15 stadia.” See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p203" data-pid="203"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:31</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p204" data-pid="204"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:33</span></a> Lit., “in the spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p205" data-pid="205"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:38</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p206" data-pid="206"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:48</span></a> That is, the temple.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p207" data-pid="207"><a href="1001061147-split11.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 11:57</span></a> Or “arrest.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
