<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_8.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos35249"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Saul, for his part, approved of his murder.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb">On that day great persecution arose against the congregation that was in Jerusalem; <span id="page1472" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1472" data-before-text="1472"></span>all except the apostles were scattered throughout the regions of Ju·deʹa and Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But devout men carried Stephen away to bury him, and they made a great mourning over him. <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Saul, though, began to ravage the congregation. He would invade one house after another, dragging out both men and women and turning them over to prison.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos35729"></span><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, those who had been scattered went through the land declaring the good news of the word. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now Philip went down to the city<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> of Sa·marʹi·a and began to preach the Christ to them. <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The crowds with one accord were paying attention to what Philip said while they listened and observed the signs he was performing. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For many had unclean spirits, and these would cry out with a loud voice and come out. Moreover, many who were paralyzed and lame were cured. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So there came to be a great deal of joy in that city.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now in the city was a man named Simon, who prior to this had been practicing magical arts and amazing the nation of Sa·marʹi·a, claiming that he was somebody great. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> All of them, from the least to the greatest, would pay attention to him and say: “This man is the Power of God, which is called Great.” <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So they would pay attention to him because he had amazed them for quite a while by his magical arts. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But when they believed Philip, who was declaring the good news of the Kingdom of God and of the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were getting baptized. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Simon himself also became a believer, and after being baptized, he continued with Philip; and he was amazed at seeing the signs and great powerful works taking place.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos37027"></span><span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Sa·marʹi·a had accepted the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them; <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and these went down and prayed for them to get holy spirit. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For it had not yet come upon any one of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then they laid their hands on them, and they began to receive holy spirit.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="pos37420"></span><span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now when Simon saw that the spirit was given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money, <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> saying: “Give me this authority also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive holy spirit.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Peter said to him: “May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could acquire the free gift of God with money. <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You have neither part nor share in this matter, for your heart is not straight in the sight of God. <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So repent of this badness of yours, and supplicate Jehovah<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> that, if possible, the wicked intention of your heart may be forgiven you; <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> for I see you are a bitter poison<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> and a slave of unrighteousness.” <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In answer Simon said to them: “Make supplication for me to Jehovah<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> that none of the things you have said may come upon me.”</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Therefore, when they had given the witness thoroughly and had spoken the word of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> they started back toward Jerusalem, and they went declaring the good news to many villages of the Sa·marʹi·tans.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos38459"></span><span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> However, Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> angel spoke to Philip, saying: “Get up and go to the south to the <span id="page1473" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1473" data-before-text="1473"></span>road that runs down from Jerusalem to Gazʹa.” (This is a desert road.) <span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> With that he got up and went, and look! an E·thi·oʹpi·an eunuch,<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> a man who had authority under Can·daʹce, queen of the E·thi·oʹpi·ans, and who was in charge of all her treasure. He had gone to Jerusalem to worship, <span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and he was returning and was sitting in his chariot, reading aloud the prophet Isaiah. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So the spirit said to Philip: “Go over and approach this chariot.” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Philip ran alongside and heard him reading aloud Isaiah the prophet, and he said: “Do you actually know<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> what you are reading?” <span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He said: “Really, how could I ever do so unless someone guided me?” So he urged Philip to get on and sit down with him. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now this was the passage of Scripture that he was reading: “Like a sheep he was brought to the slaughter, and like a lamb that is silent before its shearer, so he does not open his mouth. <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> During his humiliation, justice was taken away from him. Who will tell the details of his generation? Because his life is taken away from the earth.”</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The eunuch then said to Philip: “I beg you, about whom does the prophet say this? About himself or about some other man?” <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Philip began to speak, and starting with this scripture, he declared to him the good news about Jesus. <span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Now as they were going along the road, they came to a body of water, and the eunuch said: “Look! Here is water; what prevents me from getting baptized?” <span id="chapter8_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> —— <span id="chapter8_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> With that he commanded the chariot to halt, and both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him. <span id="chapter8_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> When they came up out of the water, Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> spirit quickly led Philip away, and the eunuch did not see him anymore, but he went on his way rejoicing. <span id="chapter8_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Philip, however, found himself in Ashʹdod, and he went through the territory and kept on declaring the good news to all the cities until he got to Caes·a·reʹa.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:5</span></a> Or possibly, “a city.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:22</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:23</span></a> Lit., “gall of bitterness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:24</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:26</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:27</span></a> Or “court official.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:30</span></a> Or “understand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:37</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061148-split8.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 8:39</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
