<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_9.xhtml">1 - 44</a></p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos37659"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>All the Israelites were enrolled genealogically, and they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was taken into exile to Babylon for its unfaithfulness. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The first inhabitants to return to their possession in their cities were some Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And some of the descendants of Judah, of Benjamin, of Eʹphra·im, and of Ma·nasʹseh settled in Jerusalem: <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Uʹthai son of Am·miʹhud son of Omʹri son of Imʹri son of Baʹni, of the descendants of Peʹrez son of Judah. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And of the Shiʹlo·nites, A·saiʹah the firstborn and his sons. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And of the sons of Zeʹrah, Je·uʹel and 690 of their brothers.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="page579" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="579" data-before-text="579"></span><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And of the descendants of Benjamin, Salʹlu son of Me·shulʹlam son of Hod·a·viʹah son of Has·se·nuʹah, <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Ib·neʹiah son of Je·roʹham, Eʹlah son of Uzʹzi son of Michʹri, and Me·shulʹlam son of Sheph·a·tiʹah son of Reuʹel son of Ib·niʹjah. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And their brothers by line of descent were 956. All these men were heads of their paternal houses.<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a></p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And of the priests, there were Je·daʹiah, Je·hoiʹa·rib, Jaʹchin, <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah son of Hil·kiʹah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Zaʹdok son of Me·raʹioth son of A·hiʹtub, a leader of the house<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> of the true God, <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> A·daiʹah son of Je·roʹham son of Pashʹhur son of Mal·chiʹjah, Maʹa·sai son of Adʹi·el son of Jahʹze·rah son of Me·shulʹlam son of Me·shilʹle·mith son of Imʹmer, <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and their brothers, heads of the paternal houses, 1,760 mighty, capable men available for the service of the house of the true God.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And of the Levites, there were She·maiʹah son of Hasʹshub son of Az·riʹkam son of Hash·a·biʹah from the descendants of Me·rarʹi; <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and Bak·bakʹkar, Heʹresh, Gaʹlal, Mat·ta·niʹah son of Miʹca son of Zichʹri son of Aʹsaph, <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> O·ba·diʹah son of She·maiʹah son of Gaʹlal son of Je·duʹthun, and Ber·e·chiʹah son of Aʹsa son of El·kaʹnah, who was dwelling in the settlements of the Ne·tophʹa·thites.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The gatekeepers were Shalʹlum, Akʹkub, Talʹmon, A·hiʹman, and their brother Shalʹlum the head, <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and until then he was at the king’s gate to the east. These were the gatekeepers of the camps of the Levites. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And Shalʹlum son of Koʹre son of E·biʹa·saph son of Korʹah, and his brothers of his paternal house, the Korʹah·ites, were over the duties of the service, the doorkeepers of the tent, and their fathers had been over the camp of Jehovah as the keepers of the entryway. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> It was Phinʹe·has the son of El·e·aʹzar who had been their leader in the past; Jehovah was with him. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Zech·a·riʹah the son of Me·shel·e·miʹah was the gatekeeper of the entrance of the tent of meeting.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> All those selected as gatekeepers at the thresholds numbered 212. They were in their settlements by their genealogical enrollment. David and Samuel the seer appointed these to their office of trust. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They and their sons were over the guard service for the gates of the house of Jehovah, the house of the tent. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The gatekeepers were on the four sides—east, west, north, and south. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> From time to time, their brothers were to come in from their settlements for seven days to serve along with them. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> There were four chief<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> gatekeepers in the office of trust. They were Levites, and they were in charge of the chambers<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> and of the treasuries of the house of the true God. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> They would spend the night in their stations all around the house of the true God, for they cared for the guard service and were in charge of the key and would open up the house from morning to morning.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Some of them were in charge of the utensils of the service; they would count them when they brought them in and count them when they took them out. <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Some of them were appointed over the utensils, over all the holy utensils, and over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, <span id="page580" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="580" data-before-text="580"></span>the frankincense, and the balsam oil. <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Some of the sons of the priests mixed the ointment of balsam oil. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And Mat·ti·thiʹah of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shalʹlum the Korʹah·ite, was in the office of trust over the things baked in pans. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Some of their brothers of the Koʹhath·ites were in charge of the layer bread,<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> to prepare it every sabbath.</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> These were the singers, the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites in the chambers,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> those set free from other duties; for by day and by night it was their responsibility to be on duty. <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> These were the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites by their line of descent, headmen. These lived in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos42232"></span><span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The father of Gibʹe·on, Je·iʹel, lived in Gibʹe·on. His wife’s name was Maʹa·cah. <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And his firstborn son was Abʹdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baʹal, Ner, Naʹdab, <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Geʹdor, A·hiʹo, Zech·a·riʹah, and Mikʹloth. <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Mikʹloth became father to Shimʹe·am. And they all lived near their brothers in Jerusalem, along with their other brothers. <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Ner became father to Kish; Kish became father to Saul; Saul became father to Jonʹa·than, Malʹchi-shuʹa, A·binʹa·dab, and Esh·baʹal. <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And Jonʹa·than’s son was Merʹib-baʹal. Merʹib-baʹal became father to Miʹcah. <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And the sons of Miʹcah were Piʹthon, Melʹech, Tahrʹe·a, and Aʹhaz. <span id="chapter9_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Aʹhaz became father to Jaʹrah; Jaʹrah became father to Alʹe·meth, Azʹma·veth, and Zimʹri. Zimʹri became father to Moʹza. <span id="chapter9_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Moʹza became father to Binʹe·a and Re·phaʹiah his son, El·e·aʹsah his son, Aʹzel his son. <span id="chapter9_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Aʹzel had six sons, and their names were Az·riʹkam, Boʹche·ru, Ishʹma·el, She·a·riʹah, O·ba·diʹah, and Haʹnan. These were the sons of Aʹzel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:2</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:9</span></a> Lit., “heads of fathers for the house of their fathers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:11</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:26</span></a> Lit., “mighty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:26</span></a> Or “dining rooms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:32</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061117-split9.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:33</span></a> Or “dining rooms.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
