<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_14.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos44887"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>And some of the elders of Israel came and sat down before me. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying: <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Son of man, these men are determined to follow their disgusting idols,<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> and they have set up a stumbling block that causes <span id="page1148" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1148" data-before-text="1148"></span>people to sin. Should I let them inquire of me? <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now speak with them and tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “If an Israelite is determined to follow his disgusting idols and sets up a stumbling block causing people to sin and he then comes to inquire of a prophet, I, Jehovah, will answer him appropriately according to his many disgusting idols. <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For I will cause terror in the hearts of the house of Israel<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> because they have all withdrawn from me and have gone after their disgusting idols.”’</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “So tell the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Come back and turn away from your disgusting idols and turn your faces away from all your detestable practices. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For if any Israelite or foreign resident living in Israel separates himself from me and is determined to follow his disgusting idols and sets up a stumbling block that causes people to sin and then comes to inquire of my prophet, I, Jehovah, I will personally answer him. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I will set my face against that man and make him a warning sign and a proverbial saying, and I will cut him off from my people; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.”’</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘But if the prophet is fooled and gives a response, it is I, Jehovah, who have fooled that prophet. I will then stretch out my hand against him and annihilate him from my people Israel. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They will have to bear their guilt; the guilt of the inquirer will be the same as the guilt of the prophet, <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> so that the house of Israel may stop wandering away from me and stop defiling themselves by all their transgressions. And they will be my people, and I will be their God,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos46839"></span><span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Son of man, if a land sins against me by acting unfaithfully, I will stretch out my hand against it and destroy its food supply,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> and I will send famine upon it and cut off man and animal from it.” <span id="pos47104"></span><span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘Even if these three men—Noah, Daniel, and Job—were within it, they would be able to save only themselves<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> because of their righteousness,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘Or suppose I make vicious wild animals pass through the land and they depopulate it<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> and make it a wasteland without anyone passing through because of the wild animals. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘even if these three men were in it, they would save neither their sons nor their daughters; they would save only themselves, and the land would become desolate.’”</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘Or suppose I bring a sword against that land and say: “Let a sword pass through the land,” and cut off from it both man and animal, <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> even if these three men were in it, as surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘they would save neither their sons nor their daughters; they would save only themselves.’”</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘Or suppose I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my rage on it with bloodshed to cut off from it man and animal, <span id="pos48179"></span><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> even if Noah, Daniel, <span id="page1149" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1149" data-before-text="1149"></span>and Job were in it, as surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘they would save neither their sons nor their daughters; they would save only themselves<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> because of their righteousness.’”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘So it will be when I send my four punishments<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a>—sword, famine, vicious wild animal, and pestilence—against Jerusalem to cut off man and animal from it. <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, some left in it will escape and be brought out, both sons and daughters. They are coming to you, and when you see their ways and their deeds, you will certainly be comforted over the calamity that I brought on Jerusalem, over everything that I did to it.’”</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘They will comfort you when you see their ways and their deeds, and you will know that it was not without cause that I did what I had to do to it,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p674" data-pid="674"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:3</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p675" data-pid="675"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:5</span></a> Lit., “seize the house of Israel in their heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p676" data-pid="676"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:13</span></a> Lit., “break its bread rods.” Possibly referring to rods used for storing bread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p677" data-pid="677"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:14</span></a> Or “their soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p678" data-pid="678"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:15</span></a> Or “bereave it of children.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p679" data-pid="679"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:20</span></a> Or “their soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p680" data-pid="680"><a href="1001061130-split14.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 14:21</span></a> Or “my four injurious acts of judgment.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
