<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Haggai 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061141"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Haggai</a>  <a href="biblechapternav37.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav37_2.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos2575"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>In the seventh month, on the 21st day of the month, the word of Jehovah came through Hagʹgai the prophet, saying, <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Please ask Ze·rubʹba·bel son of She·alʹti·el, the governor of Judah, and Joshua son of Je·hozʹa·dak, the high priest, and the rest of the people: <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> ‘Who is left among you who saw this house<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> in its former glory? How does it look to you now? Does it not seem like nothing in comparison?’</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “‘But now be strong, Ze·rubʹba·bel,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and be strong, Joshua son of Je·hozʹa·dak, the high priest.’</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb">“‘And be strong, all you people of the land,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and work.’</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb">“‘For I am with you,’ declares Jehovah of armies. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> ‘Remember what I promised you when you came out of Egypt, and my <span id="page1285" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1285" data-before-text="1285"></span>spirit remains among you.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> Do not be afraid.’”</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Yet once more—in a little while—and I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land.’</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos3520"></span><span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘And I will shake all the nations, and the precious<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> things of all the nations will come in; and I will fill this house with glory,’ says Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ declares Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘The future glory of this house will be greater than the former,’ says Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb">“‘And in this place I will grant peace,’ declares Jehovah of armies.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos3927"></span><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> On the 24th day of the ninth month, in the second year of Da·riʹus, the word of Jehovah came to Hagʹgai the prophet, saying: <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Ask, please, the priests about the law: <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “If a man carries holy flesh in the fold of his clothing, and his clothing touches bread or stew or wine or oil or any sort of food, will it become holy?”’”</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb">The priests answered: “No!”</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Hagʹgai then asked: “If someone who is unclean from contact with a dead body<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> touches any of these things, will it become unclean?”</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb">The priests answered: “It will become unclean.”</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Hagʹgai said: “‘That is how this people is, and that is how this nation is before me,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and that is how all the work of their hands is; whatever they present there is unclean.’</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘But now, please, set your heart on<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> this from this day forward: Before a stone was placed on a stone in the temple of Jehovah, <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> how was it then? When someone came to a heap of grain expecting 20 measures, there were only 10; and when someone came to the vat to draw 50 measures from the wine trough, there were only 20; <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I struck you—all the works of your hands—with scorching blight and mildew and hail, but not one of you turned to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘Please, set your heart on<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> this from this day forward, from the 24th day of the ninth month, from the day that the foundation of the temple of Jehovah was laid; set your heart on this: <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Is there seed yet in the storehouse?<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> The vine, the fig, the pomegranate, and the olive tree—they have not yet borne fruit, have they? From this day I will send a blessing.’”</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos5590"></span><span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah came a second time to Hagʹgai on the 24th day of the month, saying: <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Say to Ze·rubʹba·bel, the governor of Judah, ‘I am going to shake the heavens and the earth. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms and annihilate the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariot and its riders, and the horses and their riders will fall, each one by the sword of his brother.’”</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos6029"></span><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘In that day,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘I will take you, my servant Ze·rubʹba·bel son of She·alʹti·el,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and I will make you like a seal ring, because you are the one whom I have chosen,’ declares Jehovah of armies.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:3</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:5</span></a> Or possibly, “and when my spirit was standing in among you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:7</span></a> Or “desirable.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p38" data-pid="38"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:13</span></a> Or “by a soul.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p39" data-pid="39"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:15</span></a> Or “give careful thought to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p40" data-pid="40"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:18</span></a> Or “give careful thought to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061141-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Hag. 2:19</span></a> Or “grain pit?”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
