<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_12.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="pos62343"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>Now Mirʹi·am and Aaron began to speak against Moses because of the Cushʹite wife he had married, for he had taken a Cushʹite wife. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> They were saying: “Is it only by Moses that Jehovah has spoken? Has he not also spoken through us?” And Jehovah was listening. <span id="pos62613"></span><span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now the man Moses was by far the meekest of all the men<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> on the face of the earth.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos62701"></span><span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah suddenly said to Moses and Aaron and Mirʹi·am: “Go out, the three of you, to the tent of meeting.” So the three of them went out. <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And Jehovah came down in the pillar of cloud and stood at the entrance of the <span id="page235" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="235" data-before-text="235"></span>tent and called Aaron and Mirʹi·am. Both of them went forward. <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He then said: “Hear my words, please. If there was a prophet of Jehovah among you, I would make myself known to him in a vision, and I would speak to him in a dream. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But it is not that way with my servant Moses! He is being entrusted with all my house.<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Face-to-face<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> I speak to him, openly, not by riddles; and the appearance of Jehovah is what he sees. Why, then, did you not fear to speak against my servant, against Moses?”</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="pos63437"></span><span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So Jehovah’s anger burned against them, and he departed from them. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The cloud moved away from over the tent, and look! Mirʹi·am was struck with leprosy as white as snow. Then Aaron turned toward Mirʹi·am, and he saw that she was struck with leprosy. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Immediately Aaron said to Moses: “I beg you, my lord! Please do not hold this sin against us! We have acted foolishly in what we have done. <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Please, do not let her continue like someone dead, whose flesh is half eaten away at birth!” <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And Moses began to cry out to Jehovah, saying: “O God, please heal her! Please!”</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah replied to Moses: “If her father would spit directly in her face, would she not be humiliated for seven days? Let her be quarantined for seven days outside the camp, and afterward she may be brought back in.” <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Mirʹi·am was quarantined outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not break camp until Mirʹi·am was brought back in. <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then the people departed from Ha·zeʹroth and began camping in the wilderness of Paʹran.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p488" data-pid="488"><a href="1001061108-split12.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 12:3</span></a> Or “was very humble (mild-tempered), more so than any other man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p489" data-pid="489"><a href="1001061108-split12.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 12:7</span></a> Lit., “In all my house, he is proving himself faithful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p490" data-pid="490"><a href="1001061108-split12.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 12:8</span></a> Lit., “Mouth to mouth.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
