<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">31</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_31.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p289" data-pid="289" class="p289 sb"><span id="pos130574"></span><span id="chapter31"></span><span id="chapter31_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>31</strong> </span>Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter31_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “See, I have chosen<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> Bezʹal·el the son of Uʹri the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah. <span id="chapter31_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I will fill him with the spirit of God, giving him wisdom, understanding, and knowledge of every kind of craftsmanship, <span id="chapter31_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> for making artistic designs, for working with gold, silver, and copper, <span id="chapter31_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> for cutting and setting stones, and for making every kind of wood product. <span id="chapter31_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Moreover, to assist him I have appointed O·hoʹli·ab the son of A·hisʹa·mach of the tribe of Dan, and I am putting wisdom into the heart of all those who are skillful,<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> so that they may make everything I have commanded you: <span id="chapter31_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> the tent of meeting, the ark of the Testimony and the cover that is on it, all the equipment of the tent, <span id="chapter31_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> the table and its utensils, the lampstand of pure gold and all its utensils, the altar of incense, <span id="chapter31_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> the altar of burnt offering and all its <span id="page156" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="156" data-before-text="156"></span>utensils, the basin and its stand, <span id="chapter31_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> the finely woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, the garments of his sons to serve as priests, <span id="chapter31_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the anointing oil, and the perfumed incense for the sanctuary. They will do everything I have commanded you.”</p>
<p id="p290" data-pid="290" class="p290 sb"><span id="pos131765"></span><span id="chapter31_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jehovah said further to Moses: <span id="chapter31_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘Especially, you are to keep my sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you during your generations in order that you may know that I, Jehovah, am sanctifying you. <span id="chapter31_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You must keep the Sabbath, for it is something holy to you. Whoever profanes it must be put to death. If anyone does any work on it, then that person<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> must be cut off<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> from among his people. <span id="chapter31_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a sabbath of complete rest. It is something holy to Jehovah. Anyone doing work on the Sabbath day must be put to death. <span id="chapter31_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The Israelites must keep the Sabbath; they must observe the Sabbath during all their generations. It is a lasting covenant. <span id="chapter31_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> It is an enduring sign between me and the people of Israel, for in six days Jehovah made the heavens and the earth and on the seventh day he rested and refreshed himself.’”</p>
<p id="p291" data-pid="291" class="p291 sb"><span id="pos132710"></span><span id="chapter31_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now as soon as he had finished speaking with him on Mount Siʹnai, he gave Moses two tablets of the Testimony, tablets of stone written on by God’s finger.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p584" data-pid="584"><a href="1001061106-split31.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 31:2</span></a> Lit., “called by name.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p585" data-pid="585"><a href="1001061106-split31.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 31:6</span></a> Lit., “wise of heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p586" data-pid="586"><a href="1001061106-split31.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 31:14</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p587" data-pid="587"><a href="1001061106-split31.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 31:14</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
