<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_26.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sb"><span id="pos93390"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26</strong> </span>Now there was a famine in the land, in addition to the first famine that occurred in the days of Abraham, so that Isaac went to A·bimʹe·lech king of the Phi·lisʹtines, in Geʹrar. <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then Jehovah appeared to him and said: “Do not go down to Egypt. Dwell in the land that I designate to you. <span id="pos93686"></span><span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Reside as a foreigner in this land, and I will continue with you and bless you because to you and to your offspring<span id="footnotesource187"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote187">*</a> I will give all these lands, and I will carry out the oath that I swore to your father Abraham: <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> ‘I will multiply your offspring<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> like the stars of the heavens; and I will give to your offspring<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> all these lands; and by means of your offspring,<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing for themselves,’ <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> on account of the fact that Abraham listened to my voice and continued <span id="page74" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="74" data-before-text="74"></span>to keep my requirements, my commands, my statutes, and my laws.” <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Isaac continued to dwell in Geʹrar.</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When the men of the place kept asking about his wife, he would say: “She is my sister.” He was afraid to say, “She is my wife,” for he said, “The men of the place might kill me because of Re·bekʹah,” for she was beautiful in appearance. <span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> After some time had passed, A·bimʹe·lech king of the Phi·lisʹtines was looking out of the window, and he saw Isaac displaying affection for<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> Re·bekʹah his wife. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At once A·bimʹe·lech called Isaac and said: “She is actually your wife! Why did you say, ‘She is my sister’?” At this Isaac said to him: “I said it for fear I should die because of her.” <span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But A·bimʹe·lech continued: “What have you done to us? One of the people could easily have lain down with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us!” <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then A·bimʹe·lech commanded all the people, saying: “Anybody touching this man and his wife will surely be put to death!”</p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sb"><span id="pos95209"></span><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And Isaac began to sow seed in that land, and in that year he reaped 100 times what he sowed, for Jehovah was blessing him. <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The man became wealthy, and he continued to prosper until he became very wealthy. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He acquired flocks of sheep and herds of cattle and a large body of servants, and the Phi·lisʹtines began to envy him.</p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So the Phi·lisʹtines took soil and stopped up all the wells that his father’s servants had dug in the days of Abraham. <span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> A·bimʹe·lech then said to Isaac: “Move from our neighborhood, for you have grown far stronger than we are.” <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So Isaac moved from there and encamped in the valley<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> of Geʹrar and began dwelling there. <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And Isaac again dug the wells that had been dug in the days of his father Abraham but that the Phi·lisʹtines had stopped up after Abraham’s death, and he called them by the names that his father had given them.</p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> When the servants of Isaac were digging in the valley,<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> they found a well of fresh water. <span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the shepherds of Geʹrar began quarreling with the shepherds of Isaac, saying: “The water is ours!” So he named the well Eʹsek,<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> because they had quarreled with him. <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And they started digging another well, and they began quarreling over it also. So he named it Sitʹnah.<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Later he moved away from there and dug another well, but they did not quarrel over it. So he named it Re·hoʹboth<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> and said: “It is because now Jehovah has given us ample room and has made us fruitful in the land.”</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then he went up from there to Beʹer-sheʹba. <span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> That night Jehovah appeared to him and said: “I am the God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid, for I am with you, and I will bless you and multiply your offspring<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> on account of Abraham my servant.” <span id="chapter26_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So he built an altar there and called on the name of Jehovah. And Isaac pitched his tent there, and his servants dug a well there.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="pos97128"></span><span id="chapter26_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Later A·bimʹe·lech came to him from Geʹrar with A·huzʹzath his personal adviser and Phiʹcol the chief of his army. <span id="chapter26_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> At this Isaac said to them: “Why have you come to me, seeing that you hated me and sent me <span id="page75" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="75" data-before-text="75"></span>away from your neighborhood?” <span id="chapter26_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> To this they said: “We have clearly seen that Jehovah has been with you. So we said, ‘Let there, please, be an oath of obligation between us and you, and let us make a covenant with you <span id="chapter26_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> that you will do nothing bad to us just as we have not harmed you, seeing that we have done only good to you in that we sent you away in peace. You now are the blessed of Jehovah.’” <span id="chapter26_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then he made a feast for them, and they ate and drank. <span id="chapter26_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> In the morning they got up early and swore an oath to each other. After that Isaac sent them away, and they went from him in peace.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> On that day the servants of Isaac came and reported to him about the well that they had dug, and they told him: “We have found water!” <span id="chapter26_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So he named it Shiʹbah. That is why the name of the city is Beʹer-sheʹba to this day.</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="pos98205"></span><span id="chapter26_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> When Eʹsau was 40 years old, he took as wife Juʹdith the daughter of Be·eʹri the Hitʹtite and also Basʹe·math the daughter of Eʹlon the Hitʹtite. <span id="chapter26_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> They were a source of great grief<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> to Isaac and Re·bekʹah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote187"><p id="p654" data-pid="654"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource187">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:3</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p id="p655" data-pid="655"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p656" data-pid="656"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p id="p657" data-pid="657"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p id="p658" data-pid="658"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:8</span></a> Or “embracing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p id="p659" data-pid="659"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:17</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p id="p660" data-pid="660"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:19</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p id="p661" data-pid="661"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:20</span></a> Meaning “Contention.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p662" data-pid="662"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:21</span></a> Meaning “Accusation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p663" data-pid="663"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:22</span></a> Meaning “Broad Places.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p664" data-pid="664"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:24</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p665" data-pid="665"><a href="1001061105-split26.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 26:35</span></a> Lit., “bitterness of spirit.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
