<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_8.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="page1361" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1361" data-before-text="1361"></span><span id="pos35666"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>In those days, there was again a large crowd, and they had nothing to eat. So he summoned the disciples and said to them: <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “I feel pity for the crowd, because they have already stayed with me for three days and they have nothing to eat. <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> If I send them off to their homes hungry,<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> they will give out on the road, and some of them are from far away.” <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But his disciples answered him: “From where will anyone get enough bread in this isolated place to satisfy these people?” <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this he asked them: “How many loaves do you have?” They said: “Seven.” <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he instructed the crowd to recline on the ground. Then he took the seven loaves, gave thanks, broke them, and began giving them to his disciples to serve, and they served them to the crowd. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They also had a few small fish, and blessing these, he told them to serve these also. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So they ate and were satisfied, and they took up seven large baskets<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> full of leftover fragments. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now there were about 4,000 men. Then he sent them away.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="pos36686"></span><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Immediately he boarded the boat with his disciples and came into the region of Dal·ma·nuʹtha. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Here the Pharisees came and started disputing with him, demanding from him a sign from heaven, to put him to the test. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So he sighed deeply in his spirit and said: “Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say, no sign will be given to this generation.” <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> With that he left them, got aboard again, and went to the opposite shore.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos37144"></span><span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, they forgot to take bread along, and they had nothing with them in the boat except for one loaf. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And he warned them in no uncertain terms: “Keep your eyes open; look out for the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.” <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So they began arguing with one another over the fact that they had no bread. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Noting this, he said to them: “Why do you argue over your having no bread? Do you not yet perceive and understand? Are your hearts still dull in understanding? <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> ‘Though having eyes, do you not see; and though having ears, do you not hear?’ Do you not remember <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> when I broke the five loaves for the 5,000 men, how many baskets full of fragments you collected?” They said to him: “Twelve.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “When I broke the seven loaves for the 4,000 men, how many large baskets<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> full of fragments did you take up?” And they said to him: “Seven.” <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> With that he said to them: “Do you not yet understand?”</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos38101"></span><span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now they put in at Beth·saʹi·da. Here people brought him a blind man, and they pleaded with him to touch him. <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And he took the blind man by the hand and brought him outside the village. After spitting on his eyes, he laid his hands on him and asked him: “Do you see anything?” <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The man looked up and said: “I see people, but they look like trees walking about.” <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Again he laid his hands on the man’s eyes, and the man saw clearly. His sight was restored, and he could see everything distinctly. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So he sent him home, saying: “Do not enter into the village.”</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos38692"></span><span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Jesus and his disciples now left for the villages of Caes·a·reʹa Phi·lipʹpi, and on the way he began to question his disciples, saying: “Who are people saying that I am?” <span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> They said to him: “John the Baptist, <span id="page1362" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1362" data-before-text="1362"></span>but others say E·liʹjah, and still others, one of the prophets.” <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And he put the question to them: “You, though, who do you say I am?” Peter answered him: “You are the Christ.” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> At that he strictly ordered them not to tell anyone about him. <span id="pos39177"></span><span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Also, he began teaching them that the Son of man must undergo many sufferings and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and rise three days later. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Indeed, he was making that statement openly. But Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> At this he turned, looked at his disciples, and rebuked Peter, saying: “Get behind me, Satan! because you think, not God’s thoughts, but those of men.”</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="pos39636"></span><span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> He now called the crowd to him with his disciples and said to them: “If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> and keep following me. <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> For whoever wants to save his life<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> will lose it, but whoever loses his life<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> for my sake and for the sake of the good news will save it. <span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Really, what good will it do a man to gain the whole world and to lose his life?<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> What, really, would a man give in exchange for his life?<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> For whoever becomes ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> and sinful generation, the Son of man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p162" data-pid="162"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:3</span></a> Or “fasting.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p163" data-pid="163"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:8</span></a> Or “provision baskets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p164" data-pid="164"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:20</span></a> Or “provision baskets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p165" data-pid="165"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:34</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p166" data-pid="166"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:35</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p167" data-pid="167"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:35</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p168" data-pid="168"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:36</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p169" data-pid="169"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:37</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p170" data-pid="170"><a href="1001061145-split8.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 8:38</span></a> Or “unfaithful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
