<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_11.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p460" data-pid="460" class="p460 sb"><span id="pos47093"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying: <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Hear the words of this covenant, you people!</p>
<p id="p461" data-pid="461" class="p461 sb">“Speak<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> them to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: “Cursed is the man who does not obey the words of this covenant, <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> which I commanded your forefathers on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the iron-smelting furnace, saying, ‘Obey my voice, and do all the things that I command you; and you will become my people and I will be your God, <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> so that I may fulfill the oath that I swore to your forefathers, to give them the land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day.’”’”</p>
<p id="p462" data-pid="462" class="p462 sb">And I answered: “Amen,<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> O Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p463" data-pid="463" class="p463 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to me: “Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: ‘Hear the words of this covenant, and carry them out. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For I solemnly admonished your forefathers in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt and to this day, admonishing them again and again:<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> “Obey my voice.” <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But they did not listen or incline their ear; instead, each kept stubbornly following his own wicked heart. So I brought on them all the words of this covenant that I commanded them to do and that they refused to carry out.’”</p>
<p id="p464" data-pid="464" class="p464 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to me: “There is a conspiracy among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They have returned to the errors of their forefathers of old, who refused to obey my words. They too have followed other gods and have served them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their forefathers. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah says, ‘Here I am bringing on them a calamity that they will not be able to escape. When they call to me for help, I will not listen to them. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go to the gods to which they are making sacrifices<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> and call for help, but these will by no means save them in the time of their calamity. <span id="pos49162"></span><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For your gods have become as many as your cities, O Judah, and you have set up as many altars to the shameful thing<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> as there are streets in Jerusalem, altars to make sacrifices to Baʹal.’</p>
<p id="p465" data-pid="465" class="p465 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “As for you,<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> do not pray in behalf of this people. Do not cry out in their behalf or offer a prayer for them, for I will not be listening when they call out to me because of their calamity.</p>
<p id="p466" data-pid="466" class="p466 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> What right does my beloved one have to be in my house</p><p data-pid="466" class="p466 sz">When so many have carried out evil schemes?</p>
<p id="p467" data-pid="467" class="p467 sz">With holy flesh<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> will they avert the calamity when it comes upon you?</p>
<p id="p468" data-pid="468" class="p468 sz">Will you exult at that time?</p>
<p id="p469" data-pid="469" class="p469 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Jehovah once called you a thriving olive tree,</p><p data-pid="469" class="p469 sz"><span id="page1052" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1052" data-before-text="1052"></span>Beautiful with fine fruit.</p>
<p id="p470" data-pid="470" class="p470 sz">With a great roaring sound, he has set her on fire,</p><p data-pid="470" class="p470 sz">And they have broken its branches.</p>
<p id="p471" data-pid="471" class="p471 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “Jehovah of armies, your Planter, has declared that a calamity will come upon you because of the evil committed by the house of Israel and the house of Judah, who have offended me by making sacrifices to Baʹal.”</p>
<p id="p472" data-pid="472" class="p472 sl"><span id="pos50164"></span><span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Jehovah informed me so that I would know;</p><p data-pid="472" class="p472 sz">At that time you caused me to see what they were doing.</p>
<p id="p473" data-pid="473" class="p473 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> I was like a docile lamb being brought to the slaughter.</p>
<p id="p474" data-pid="474" class="p474 sz">I did not know that they were scheming against me:</p>
<p id="p475" data-pid="475" class="p475 sz">“Let us destroy the tree with its fruit,</p><p data-pid="475" class="p475 sz">And let us cut him off from the land of the living,</p><p data-pid="475" class="p475 sz">So that his name may be remembered no more.”</p>
<p id="p476" data-pid="476" class="p476 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Jehovah of armies judges with righteousness;</p><p data-pid="476" class="p476 sz">He examines the innermost thoughts<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> and the heart.</p>
<p id="p477" data-pid="477" class="p477 sz">Let me see your vengeance on them,</p><p data-pid="477" class="p477 sz">For to you I have committed my legal case.</p>
<p id="p478" data-pid="478" class="p478 sb"><span id="pos50727"></span><span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah says against the men of Anʹa·thoth who are seeking to take your life<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> and who say: “You must not prophesy in the name of Jehovah, or you will die by our hand”; <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> therefore this is what Jehovah of armies says: “Here I am going to call them to account. The young men will die by the sword, and their sons and their daughters will die by famine. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Not even a remnant will be left of them, because I will bring calamity on the men of Anʹa·thoth in the year of their being called to account.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p1692" data-pid="1692"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:2</span></a> Apparently addressed to Jeremiah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p1693" data-pid="1693"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:5</span></a> Or “So be it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p1694" data-pid="1694"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:7</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and admonishing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p1695" data-pid="1695"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:12</span></a> Or “sacrificial smoke.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p1696" data-pid="1696"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:13</span></a> Or “the shameful god.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p1697" data-pid="1697"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:14</span></a> That is, Jeremiah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p1698" data-pid="1698"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:15</span></a> That is, sacrifices made in the temple.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p1699" data-pid="1699"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:20</span></a> Or “deepest emotions.” Lit., “kidneys.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p1700" data-pid="1700"><a href="1001061128-split11.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 11:21</span></a> Or “seeking your soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
