<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Timothy 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061159"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav55.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav55_3.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos5976"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>But know this, that in the last days critical times hard to deal with will be here. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, disloyal, <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> having no natural affection, not open to any agreement, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, without love of goodness, <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> betrayers, headstrong, puffed up with pride, lovers of pleasures rather than lovers of God, <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> having an appearance of godliness but proving false to its power; and from these turn away. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> From among these arise men who slyly work their way into households and captivate weak women loaded down with sins, led by various desires, <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> always learning and yet never able to come to an accurate knowledge of truth.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos6745"></span><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now in the way that Janʹnes and Jamʹbres opposed Moses, so these also go on opposing the truth. Such men are completely corrupted in mind, disapproved as regards the faith. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Nevertheless, they will make no further progress, for their folly<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> will be very plain to all, as it was with those two men. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But you have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance, <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the persecutions and sufferings such as I experienced in Antioch, in I·coʹni·um, in Lysʹtra. I endured these persecutions, and the Lord rescued me from them all. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> In fact, all those desiring to live with godly devotion in association with Christ Jesus will also be persecuted. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But wicked men and impostors will advance from bad to worse, misleading and being misled.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos7571"></span><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You, however, continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe, knowing from whom you learned them <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and that from infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. <span id="pos7842"></span><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> All Scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight,<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> for disciplining in righteousness, <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> so that the man of God may be fully competent, completely equipped for every good work.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061159-split3.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Tim. 3:9</span></a> Or “foolishness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061159-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Tim. 3:16</span></a> Or “correcting.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
