<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_11.xhtml">1 - 54</a></p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos66319"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Now he was in a certain place praying, and when he stopped, one of his disciples said to him: “Lord, teach us how to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos66488"></span><span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So he said to them: “Whenever you pray, say: ‘Father, let your name be sanctified.<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> Let your Kingdom come. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Give us each day our bread according to our daily needs. <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive everyone who is in debt to us; and do not bring us into temptation.’”</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Suppose one of you has a friend and you go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves, <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> because one of my friends has just come to me on a journey and I have nothing to offer him.’ <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But that one replies from inside: ‘Stop bothering me. The door is already locked, and my young children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything.’ <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I tell you, even if he will not get up and give him anything because of being his friend, certainly because of his bold persistence he will get up and give him whatever he needs. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So I say to you, keep on asking, and it will be given you; keep on seeking, and you will find; keep on knocking, and it will be opened to you. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For everyone asking receives, and everyone seeking finds, and to everyone knocking, it will be opened. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Indeed, which father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will hand him a serpent instead of a fish? <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Or if he also asks for an egg, will hand him a scorpion? <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Therefore, if you, although being wicked, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more so will the Father in heaven give holy spirit to those asking him!”</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos67987"></span><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Later he expelled a speechless demon. After the demon came out, the speechless man spoke, and the crowds were amazed. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But some of them said: “He expels the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub,<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> the ruler of the demons.” <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And others, to test him, began demanding a sign out of heaven from him. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Knowing their thinking, he said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself comes to ruin, and a house divided against itself falls. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> In the same way, if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say I expel the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> If I expel the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub, by whom do your sons expel them? This is why they will be your judges. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But if it is by means of God’s finger that I expel the demons, the Kingdom of God has really overtaken <span id="page1400" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1400" data-before-text="1400"></span>you. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When a strong, well-armed man guards his palace, his belongings remain secure. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But when someone stronger than he is comes against him and conquers him, that man takes away all his weapons in which he was trusting, and he divides up the things he took from him. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Whoever is not on my side is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos69212"></span><span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “When an unclean spirit comes out of a man, it passes through waterless places in search of a resting-place, and after finding none, it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I moved.’ <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And on arriving, it finds the house swept clean and adorned. <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then it goes and takes along seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and after getting inside, they dwell there. So the final circumstances of that man become worse than the first.”</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="pos69668"></span><span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Now as he was saying these things, a woman from the crowd called out to him: “Happy is the womb that carried you and the breasts that nursed you!” <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But he said: “No, rather, happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it!”</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="pos69914"></span><span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> When the crowds were massing together, he began to say: “This generation is a wicked generation; it looks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Joʹnah. <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> For just as Joʹnah became a sign to the Ninʹe·vites, so will the Son of man be to this generation. <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The queen of the south will be raised up in the judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solʹo·mon. But look! something more than Solʹo·mon is here. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The men of Ninʹe·veh will rise in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at what Joʹnah preached. But look! something more than Joʹnah is here. <span id="pos70639"></span><span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> After lighting a lamp, a person puts it, not in a hidden place nor under a basket,<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> but on the lampstand, so that those who come in may see the light. <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The lamp of the body is your eye. When your eye is focused,<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> your whole body is also bright;<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> but when it is envious,<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> your body is also dark. <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Be alert, therefore, that the light that is in you is not darkness. <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Therefore, if your whole body is bright with no part of it dark, it will all be as bright as when a lamp gives you light by its rays.”</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="pos71166"></span><span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> When he had said this, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him. So he went in and reclined at the table. <span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> However, the Pharisee was surprised at seeing that he did not first wash<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> before the dinner. <span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But the Lord said to him: “Now you Pharisees, you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greediness and wickedness. <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Unreasonable ones! The one who made the outside made also the inside, did he not? <span id="chapter11_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> But give as gifts of mercy<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> the things that are from within, and look! everything about you will be clean. <span id="chapter11_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> But woe to you Pharisees, because you give the tenth of the mint and of the rue and of every other garden herb,<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> but you disregard the justice and the love of God! These things you were under obligation to do, but not to disregard those other things. <span id="chapter11_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Woe to you Pharisees, because <span id="page1401" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1401" data-before-text="1401"></span>you love the front<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces! <span id="chapter11_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Woe to you, because you are as those graves<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> that are not clearly visible,<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> that men walk on and do not know it!”</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> In reply one of those versed in the Law said to him: “Teacher, in saying these things, you insult us also.” <span id="chapter11_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Then he said: “Woe also to you who are versed in the Law, because you load men down with loads hard to carry, but you yourselves do not touch the loads with one of your fingers!</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> “Woe to you, because you build the tombs<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> of the prophets, but your forefathers killed them! <span id="chapter11_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Certainly you are witnesses of the deeds of your forefathers, and yet you approve of them, for they killed the prophets but you are building their tombs. <span id="chapter11_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> That is why the wisdom of God also said: ‘I will send prophets and apostles to them, and they will kill and persecute some of them, <span id="chapter11_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> so that the blood of all the prophets spilled from the founding of the world may be charged against<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> this generation, <span id="chapter11_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> from the blood of Abel down to the blood of Zech·a·riʹah, who was killed between the altar and the house.’<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> Yes, I tell you, it will be charged against<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> this generation.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> “Woe to you who are versed in the Law, because you took away the key of knowledge. You yourselves did not go in, and you hinder those going in!”</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> So when he went out from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to put extreme pressure on him and to ply him with many more questions, <span id="chapter11_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:2</span></a> Or “be held sacred; be treated as holy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:15</span></a> A designation applied to Satan.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:33</span></a> Or “measuring basket.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:34</span></a> Or “clear.” Lit., “simple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p333" data-pid="333"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:34</span></a> Or “full of light.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p334" data-pid="334"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:34</span></a> Lit., “bad; wicked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:38</span></a> That is, ceremonially cleanse himself.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:41</span></a> Or “gifts to the poor.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38863">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:42</span></a> Or “other vegetable.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:43</span></a> Or “best.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:44</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:44</span></a> Or “those unmarked graves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p341" data-pid="341"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:47</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p342" data-pid="342"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:50</span></a> Or “required from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p343" data-pid="343"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:51</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p344" data-pid="344"><a href="1001061146-split11.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 11:51</span></a> Or “required from.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
