<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_7.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos21536"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>After that Jehovah said to Noah: “Go into the ark, you and all your household, because you are the one I have found to be righteous before me among this generation. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You must take with you every kind of clean animal by sevens,<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> the male and its mate; and of every animal that is not clean just two, the male and its mate; <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> also of the flying creatures of the sky by sevens,<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> male and female, to preserve their offspring alive over all the earth. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For in just seven days, I will make it rain on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights, and I will wipe from the surface of the ground every living thing that I have made.” <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Noah did everything that Jehovah had commanded him.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Noah was 600 years old when the floodwaters came upon the earth. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So Noah, along with his sons, his wife, and his sons’ wives, went into the ark ahead of the floodwaters. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Of every clean animal and of every animal that is not clean and of the flying creatures and of everything that moves on the ground, <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> they went inside the ark to Noah by twos, male and female, just as God had commanded Noah. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And seven days later the floodwaters came upon the earth.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos22702"></span><span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> In the 600th year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the 17th day of the month, on that day all the springs of the vast watery deep burst open and the floodgates of the heavens were opened. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And the rain poured down on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> On that very day, Noah went into the ark along with his sons, Shem, Ham, and Jaʹpheth, and his wife and the three wives of his sons. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They went in with every wild animal according <span id="page51" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="51" data-before-text="51"></span>to its kind, and every domestic animal according to its kind, and every creeping animal of the earth according to its kind, and every flying creature according to its kind, every bird, every winged creature. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They kept going to Noah inside the ark, two by two, of every sort of flesh that has the breath of life.<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So they went in, male and female of every sort of flesh, just as God had commanded him. After that Jehovah shut the door behind him.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The flooding continued<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> for 40 days on the earth, and the waters kept increasing and began carrying the ark, and it was floating high above the earth. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The waters became overwhelming and kept increasing greatly upon the earth, but the ark floated on the surface of the waters. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The waters overwhelmed the earth so greatly that all the tall mountains under the whole heavens were covered. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The waters rose up to 15 cubits<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> above the mountains.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So all living creatures<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> that were moving on the earth perished—the flying creatures, the domestic animals, the wild animals, the swarming creatures, and all mankind. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Everything on dry land that had the breath of life<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> in its nostrils died. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So He wiped every living thing from the surface of the earth, including man, animals, creeping animals, and the flying creatures of the sky. They were all wiped off the earth; only Noah and those with him in the ark survived. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And the waters continued overwhelming the earth for 150 days.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p526" data-pid="526"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:2</span></a> Or possibly, “seven pairs of every clean animal.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p527" data-pid="527"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:3</span></a> Or possibly, “seven pairs of the flying creatures of the sky.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p528" data-pid="528"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:15</span></a> Or “the spirit of life.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p529" data-pid="529"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:17</span></a> Or “kept coming.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p530" data-pid="530"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:20</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p531" data-pid="531"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:21</span></a> Lit., “all flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p532" data-pid="532"><a href="1001061105-split7.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 7:22</span></a> Or “the breath of the spirit of life.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
