<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_2.xhtml">1 - 55</a></p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="pos4567"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>These were the sons of Israel: Reuʹben, Simʹe·on, Leʹvi, Judah, Isʹsa·char, Zebʹu·lun, <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphʹta·li, Gad, and Ashʹer.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos4726"></span><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The sons of Judah were Er, Oʹnan, and Sheʹlah. These three were born to him from Shuʹa’s daughter, the Caʹnaan·it·ess. But Er, Judah’s firstborn, was displeasing to Jehovah, so He put him to death. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Taʹmar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Peʹrez and Zeʹrah. Judah had five sons in all.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The sons of Peʹrez were Hezʹron and Haʹmul.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The sons of Zeʹrah were Zimʹri, Eʹthan, Heʹman, Calʹcol, and Daʹra. There were five of them in all.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The son<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> of Carʹmi was Aʹchar,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> who brought disaster<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> on Israel, who was unfaithful with regard to what had been devoted to destruction.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The son<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> of Eʹthan was Az·a·riʹah.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The sons of Hezʹron who were born to him were Je·rahʹme·el, Ram, and Che·luʹbai.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a></p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Ram became father to Am·minʹa·dab. Am·minʹa·dab became father to Nahʹshon the chieftain of the descendants of Judah. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Nahʹshon became father to Salʹma. Salʹma became father to Boʹaz. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Boʹaz became father to Oʹbed. Oʹbed became father to Jesʹse. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jesʹse became father to his firstborn E·liʹab, A·binʹa·dab the second, Shimʹe·a the third, <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Ne·thanʹel the fourth, Radʹdai the fifth, <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Oʹzem the sixth, and David the seventh. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Their sisters were Ze·ruʹiah and Abʹi·gail. The sons of Ze·ruʹiah were A·bishʹai, Joʹab, and Asʹa·hel, three. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Abʹi·gail gave birth to A·maʹsa, and the father of A·maʹsa was Jeʹther the Ishʹma·el·ite.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Caʹleb<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> the son of Hezʹron became father to sons by his wife A·zuʹbah and by Jerʹi·oth; <span id="page569" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="569" data-before-text="569"></span>and these were her sons: Jeʹsher, Shoʹbab, and Arʹdon. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> When A·zuʹbah died, Caʹleb married Ephʹrath, and she bore Hur to him. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Hur became father to Uʹri. Uʹri became father to Bezʹal·el.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Afterward Hezʹron had relations with the daughter of Maʹchir the father of Gilʹe·ad. He married her when he was 60 years old, and she bore Seʹgub to him. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Seʹgub became father to Jaʹir, who had 23 cities in the land of Gilʹe·ad. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Later Geshʹur and Syria took Havʹvoth-jaʹir from them, along with Keʹnath and its dependent<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> towns, 60 cities. All of these were the descendants of Maʹchir the father of Gilʹe·ad.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After the death of Hezʹron in Caʹleb-ephʹra·thah, A·biʹjah the wife of Hezʹron bore him Ashʹhur the father of Te·koʹa.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The sons of Je·rahʹme·el the firstborn of Hezʹron were Ram the firstborn, Buʹnah, Oʹren, Oʹzem, and A·hiʹjah. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Je·rahʹme·el had another wife, whose name was Atʹa·rah. She was the mother of Oʹnam. <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The sons of Ram the firstborn of Je·rahʹme·el were Maʹaz, Jaʹmin, and Eʹker. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The sons of Oʹnam were Shamʹmai and Jaʹda. The sons of Shamʹmai were Naʹdab and A·biʹshur. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The name of A·biʹshur’s wife was Abʹi·ha·il, who bore him Ahʹban and Moʹlid. <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The sons of Naʹdab were Seʹled and Apʹpa·im. But Seʹled died without sons. <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The son<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> of Apʹpa·im was Ishʹi. And the son<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> of Ishʹi was Sheʹshan, and the son<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> of Sheʹshan, Ahʹlai. <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The sons of Jaʹda the brother of Shamʹmai were Jeʹther and Jonʹa·than. But Jeʹther died without sons. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The sons of Jonʹa·than were Peʹleth and Zaʹza. These were the descendants of Je·rahʹme·el.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Sheʹshan had no sons, only daughters. Now Sheʹshan had an Egyptian servant whose name was Jarʹha. <span id="chapter2_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Sheʹshan gave his daughter to be the wife of his servant Jarʹha, and she bore him Atʹtai. <span id="chapter2_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Atʹtai became father to Nathan. Nathan became father to Zaʹbad. <span id="chapter2_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Zaʹbad became father to Ephʹlal. Ephʹlal became father to Oʹbed. <span id="chapter2_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Oʹbed became father to Jeʹhu. Jeʹhu became father to Az·a·riʹah. <span id="chapter2_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah became father to Heʹlez. Heʹlez became father to El·e·aʹsah. <span id="chapter2_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> El·e·aʹsah became father to Sisʹmai. Sisʹmai became father to Shalʹlum. <span id="chapter2_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Shalʹlum became father to Jek·a·miʹah. Jek·a·miʹah became father to E·lishʹa·ma.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> The sons of Caʹleb<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> the brother of Je·rahʹme·el were Meʹsha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Ma·reʹshah the father of Hebʹron. <span id="chapter2_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> The sons of Hebʹron were Korʹah, Tapʹpu·ah, Reʹkem, and Sheʹma. <span id="chapter2_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Sheʹma became father to Raʹham the father of Jorʹke·am. Reʹkem became father to Shamʹmai. <span id="chapter2_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> The son of Shamʹmai was Maʹon. Maʹon was the father of Beth-zur. <span id="chapter2_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Caʹleb’s concubine Eʹphah gave birth to Haʹran, Moʹza, and Gaʹzez. Haʹran became father to Gaʹzez. <span id="chapter2_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> The sons of Jahʹdai were Reʹgem, Joʹtham, Geʹshan, Pelʹet, Eʹphah, and Shaʹaph. <span id="chapter2_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Caʹleb’s concubine Maʹa·cah gave birth to Sheʹber and Tirʹha·nah. <span id="chapter2_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> In time she bore Shaʹaph the father of Mad·manʹnah and Sheʹva the father of Mach·beʹnah <span id="page570" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="570" data-before-text="570"></span>and Gibʹe·a. Caʹleb’s daughter was Achʹsah. <span id="chapter2_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> These were the descendants of Caʹleb.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb">The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephʹra·thah were Shoʹbal the father of Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim, <span id="chapter2_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Salʹma the father of Bethʹle·hem, and Haʹreph the father of Beth-gaʹder. <span id="chapter2_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> Shoʹbal the father of Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim had sons: Ha·roʹeh and half of the Me·nuʹhoth. <span id="chapter2_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> The families of Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim were the Ithʹrites, the Puʹthites, the Shuʹmath·ites, and the Mishʹra·ites. It was from these that the Zoʹrath·ites and the Eshʹta·ol·ites came. <span id="chapter2_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> The sons of Salʹma were Bethʹle·hem, the Ne·tophʹa·thites, Atʹroth-beth-joʹab, half of the Man·a·haʹthites, and the Zorʹites. <span id="chapter2_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> The families of the scribes dwelling at Jaʹbez were the Tiʹrath·ites, the Shimʹe·ath·ites, and the Suʹcath·ites. These were the Kenʹites who came from Hamʹmath the father of the house of Reʹchab.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Meaning “Bringer of Disaster; Bringer of Ostracism.” In <a href="1001061110-split7.xhtml#pos20968">Jos 7:1</a>, also called Achan.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Or “trouble; ostracism.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:8</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:9</span></a> Also called Caleb in vss. 18, 19, 42.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:18</span></a> Also called Chelubai in vs. 9.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:23</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061117-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:42</span></a> Also called Chelubai in vs. 9.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
