<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_7.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="pos21661"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>“‘This is the law of the guilt offering: It is something most holy. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> They will slaughter the guilt offering in the place where they slaughter the burnt offerings, and its blood should be sprinkled on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He will present all its fat, including the fat tail, the fat that covers the intestines, <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and the two kidneys with their fat that is near the loins. He will also remove the appendage of the liver along with the kidneys. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The priest will make them smoke on the altar as an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a guilt offering. <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Every male among the priests will eat it, and it should be eaten in a holy place. It is something most holy. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The law regarding the sin offering applies to the guilt offering; it belongs to the priest who makes atonement with it.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘When the priest presents the burnt offering for someone, the skin of the burnt offering that was presented to the priest will become his.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘Every grain offering that is baked in the oven or prepared in the pan or on the griddle belongs to the priest who presents it. It will become his. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But every grain offering that is mixed with oil or that is dry will be for all of Aaron’s sons; each will have an equal share.</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="pos22901"></span><span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘Now this is the law of the communion sacrifice that one <span id="page179" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="179" data-before-text="179"></span>may present to Jehovah: <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> If he presents it as an expression of thanksgiving, he will present along with the thanksgiving sacrifice unleavened ring-shaped loaves mixed with oil, unleavened wafers spread with oil, and ring-shaped loaves made with fine flour, well-mixed and blended with oil. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He will present his offering along with ring-shaped loaves of leavened bread and the thanksgiving sacrifice of his communion sacrifices. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He is to present from it one of each offering as a sacred portion to Jehovah; it will belong to the priest who sprinkles the blood of the communion sacrifices. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The flesh of the thanksgiving sacrifice of his communion sacrifices is to be eaten on the day he offers it. He must not save any of it until morning.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘If the sacrifice of his offering is a vow or a voluntary offering, it is to be eaten on the day he presents his sacrifice, and what is left of it may also be eaten on the next day. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But whatever is left of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day is to be burned with fire. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, if any of the flesh of his communion sacrifice is eaten on the third day, the one presenting it will not be accepted with approval. It will not be credited to him; it is an offensive thing, and the person<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> who eats some of it will answer for his error. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Flesh that touches anything unclean is not to be eaten. It is to be burned with fire. Everyone who is clean may eat the clean flesh.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “‘But any person<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> who is unclean and eats the flesh of the communion sacrifice, which is for Jehovah, that person<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> must be cut off<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> from his people. <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> If someone<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> touches anything unclean, whether the uncleanness of a man or an unclean animal or any unclean disgusting thing, and eats some of the flesh of the communion sacrifice, which is for Jehovah, that person<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> must be cut off<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> from his people.’”</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos24830"></span><span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites, ‘You must not eat any fat of a bull or a young ram or a goat. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The fat of an animal found dead and the fat of an animal killed by another animal may be used for any other purpose, but you must never eat it. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For whoever eats fat from an animal that he presents as an offering made by fire to Jehovah must be cut off<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> from his people.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘You must not eat any blood in any of your dwelling places, whether that of birds or that of animals. <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Anyone<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> who eats any blood must be cut off<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> from his people.’”</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos25437"></span><span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Jehovah went on to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites, ‘Whoever presents his communion sacrifice to Jehovah will bring part of the offering from his communion sacrifice to Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> He will bring in his own hands the fat along with the breast as an offering made by fire to Jehovah, and he will wave it back and forth as a wave offering before Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The priest will make the fat smoke on the altar, but the breast will belong to Aaron and his sons.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “‘You will give the right leg as a sacred portion to the priest from your communion sacrifices. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The son of Aaron who presents the blood <span id="page180" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="180" data-before-text="180"></span>of the communion sacrifices and the fat will have the right leg as his portion. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> For I take the breast of the wave offering and the leg of the sacred portion from the communion sacrifices of the Israelites, and I give them to Aaron the priest and his sons as a lasting regulation for the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “‘This was the portion from Jehovah’s offerings made by fire to be set aside for the priests, for Aaron and his sons, on the day he presented them to serve as priests to Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Jehovah commanded to give them this portion from the Israelites on the day he anointed them. It is a permanent statute for their generations.’”</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos26721"></span><span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> This is the law concerning the burnt offering, the grain offering, the sin offering, the guilt offering, the installation sacrifice, and the communion sacrifice, <span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> just as Jehovah commanded Moses on Mount Siʹnai in the day he commanded the Israelites to present their offerings to Jehovah in the wilderness of Siʹnai.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:18</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:20</span></a> Or “the soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:20</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:20</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:21</span></a> Or “a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:21</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:21</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:25</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p333" data-pid="333"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:27</span></a> Or “Any soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p334" data-pid="334"><a href="1001061107-split7.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 7:27</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
