<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_18.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos57473"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Je·hoshʹa·phat had riches and glory in abundance, but he made a marriage alliance with Aʹhab. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So years later he went down to Aʹhab at Sa·marʹi·a, and Aʹhab sacrificed sheep and cattle in abundance for him and for the people with him. And he urged<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> him to go up against Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then King Aʹhab of Israel said to King Je·hoshʹa·phat of Judah: “Will you go with me to Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad?” He replied to him: “I am the same as you, and my people are the same as your people and will support you in the war.”</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But Je·hoshʹa·phat said to the king of Israel: “First inquire, please, for the word of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, 400 men, and said to them: “Should we go to war against Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad, or should I refrain?” They said: “Go up, and the true God will give it into the king’s hand.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Je·hoshʹa·phat then said: “Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah? Let us also inquire through him.” <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At that the king of Israel said to Je·hoshʹa·phat: “There is still one more man through whom we can inquire of Jehovah; but I hate him, for he never prophesies good things concerning me, but always bad. He is Mi·caiʹah the son of Imʹlah.” However, Je·hoshʹa·phat said: “The king should not say such a thing.”</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So the king of Israel called a court official and said: “Bring Mi·caiʹah the son of Imʹlah quickly.” <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now the king of Israel and Je·hoshʹa·phat the king of Judah were each sitting on his throne, dressed in royal attire; they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Sa·marʹi·a, and all the prophets were prophesying before them. <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Zed·e·kiʹah the son of Che·naʹa·nah made for himself iron horns and said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘With these you will gore<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> the Syrians until you exterminate them.’” <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> All the other prophets were prophesying the same way, saying: “Go up to Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad and you will be successful; Jehovah will give it into the king’s hand.”</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="pos59463"></span><span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So the messenger who went to call Mi·caiʹah said to him: “Look! The words of the prophets are unanimously favorable to the king. Let your word, please, become like theirs, and speak favorably.” <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But Mi·caiʹah said: “As surely as Jehovah is living, whatever my God says is what I will speak.” <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then he came in to the king, and the king asked him: <span id="page626" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="626" data-before-text="626"></span>“Mi·caiʹah, should we go to war against Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad, or should I refrain?” At once he replied: “Go up and you will be successful; they will be given into your hand.” <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At that the king said to him: “How many times must I put you under oath not to speak to me anything but the truth in the name of Jehovah?” <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So he said: “I see all the Israelites scattered on the mountains, like sheep that have no shepherd. Jehovah said: ‘These have no master. Let each one go back to his house in peace.’”</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then the king of Israel said to Je·hoshʹa·phat: “Did I not tell you, ‘He will not prophesy good things concerning me, only bad’?”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Mi·caiʹah then said: “Therefore, hear the word of Jehovah: I saw Jehovah sitting on his throne and all the army of the heavens standing at his right and at his left. <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jehovah then said, ‘Who will fool King Aʹhab of Israel, so that he will go up and fall at Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad?’ And one was saying one thing while another said something else. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then a spirit<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> came forward and stood before Jehovah and said, ‘I will fool him.’ Jehovah asked him, ‘How will you do it?’ <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He replied, ‘I will go out and become a deceptive spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ So he said, ‘You will fool him, and what is more, you will be successful. Go out and do that.’ <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And now Jehovah has put a deceptive spirit in the mouth of these prophets of yours, but Jehovah has declared calamity for you.”</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Zed·e·kiʹah the son of Che·naʹa·nah now approached and struck Mi·caiʹah on the cheek and said: “Which way did the spirit of Jehovah pass from me to speak with you?” <span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Mi·caiʹah replied: “Look! You will see which way on the day when you will enter the innermost room to hide.” <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then the king of Israel said: “Take Mi·caiʹah and turn him over to Aʹmon the chief of the city and to Joʹash the king’s son. <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Tell them, ‘This is what the king says: “Put this fellow in the prison and feed him with a reduced allowance of bread and water until I return in peace.”’” <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But Mi·caiʹah said: “If you do return in peace, Jehovah has not spoken with me.” Then he added: “Take note, all you peoples.”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="pos62020"></span><span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So the king of Israel and Je·hoshʹa·phat the king of Judah went up to Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad. <span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The king of Israel now said to Je·hoshʹa·phat: “I will disguise myself and will go into the battle, but you should put on your royal attire.” So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they entered the battle. <span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now the king of Syria had ordered his chariot commanders: “Do not fight with anyone, small or great, except the king of Israel.” <span id="chapter18_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And as soon as the chariot commanders saw Je·hoshʹa·phat, they said to themselves: “It is the king of Israel.” So they turned to fight against him; and Je·hoshʹa·phat began to cry for help, and Jehovah helped him, and God at once diverted them from him. <span id="chapter18_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> When the chariot commanders saw that it was not the king of Israel, they immediately turned back from following him.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But one man shot his bow at random,<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> and he struck the king of Israel between the joints of his coat of mail. So the king said to his charioteer: “Turn around and take me out of the battle,<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> for I have been <span id="page627" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="627" data-before-text="627"></span>badly wounded.” <span id="chapter18_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The fighting raged throughout that day, and the king of Israel had to be propped up in the chariot, facing the Syrians until the evening; and he died at sunset.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p354" data-pid="354"><a href="1001061118-split18.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 18:2</span></a> Or “persuaded.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p355" data-pid="355"><a href="1001061118-split18.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 18:10</span></a> Or “push.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p356" data-pid="356"><a href="1001061118-split18.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 18:20</span></a> Or “an angel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p357" data-pid="357"><a href="1001061118-split18.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 18:33</span></a> Or “in his innocence.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p358" data-pid="358"><a href="1001061118-split18.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 18:33</span></a> Lit., “camp.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
