<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Esther 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061121"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Esther</a>  <a href="biblechapternav17.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav17_7.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos19682"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>So the king and Haʹman came in to Queen Esther’s banquet. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The king said to Esther again on the second day during the banquet of wine: “What is your petition, Queen Esther? It will be granted you. And what is your request? Even to<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> the half of my kingdom, it will be done!” <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Queen Esther answered: “If I have found favor with you, O king, and if it pleases the king, let my life<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> be granted as my petition, and my people as my request. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For we have been sold, I and my people, to be annihilated, killed, and destroyed. If we had simply been sold as male and female slaves, I would have kept silent. But the distress is not proper, for it will be damaging to the king.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> King A·has·u·eʹrus then said to Queen Esther: “Who is this, and where is the man who has dared to do such a thing?” <span id="pos20488"></span><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Esther said: “The adversary and enemy is this evil Haʹman.”</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb">Haʹman became terrified because of the king and the queen. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The king rose up in a rage from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden, but Haʹman stood up to plead with Queen Esther for his life,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> for he realized that the king was determined to punish him. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The king returned from the palace garden to the house of the wine banquet and saw that Haʹman had thrown himself on the couch where Esther was. The king exclaimed: “Is he also going to rape the queen in my own house?” As soon as these words left the king’s mouth, they covered Haʹman’s face. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Har·boʹna, one of the king’s court officials, now said: “Haʹman also prepared a stake for Morʹde·cai, whose report saved the king. It is standing at Haʹman’s house, <span id="page695" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="695" data-before-text="695"></span>50 cubits<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> high.” At that the king said: “Hang him on it.” <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So they hanged Haʹman on the stake that he had prepared for Morʹde·cai, and the king’s rage subsided.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p130" data-pid="130"><a href="1001061121-split7.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 7:2</span></a> Or “for.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p131" data-pid="131"><a href="1001061121-split7.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 7:3</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p132" data-pid="132"><a href="1001061121-split7.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 7:7</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061121-split7.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 7:9</span></a> About 22.3 m (73 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
