<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_13.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos75199"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>By the word of Jehovah, a man of God came from Judah to Bethʹel while Jer·o·boʹam was standing by the altar to make sacrificial smoke. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he called out against the altar by the word of Jehovah and said: “O altar, altar! This is what Jehovah says: ‘Look! A son named Jo·siʹah will be born to the house of David! He will sacrifice on you the priests of the high places, those making sacrificial smoke on you, and he will burn human bones on you.’” <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He gave a sign<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> on that day, saying: “This is the sign<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> that Jehovah has declared: Look! The altar will be ripped apart, and the ashes<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> that are on it will be spilled out.”</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As soon as the king heard the word that the man of the true God had called out against the altar at Bethʹel, Jer·o·boʹam stretched out his hand from the altar and said: “Seize him!” Immediately, the hand that he had stretched out against him dried up,<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> and he could not draw it back. <span id="pos76124"></span><span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the altar was ripped apart and the ashes were spilled out from the altar according to the sign<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> that the man of the true God had given by the word of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The king now said to the man of the true God: “Please, beg for the favor<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> of Jehovah your God, and pray in my behalf that my hand may be restored to me.” At this the man of the true God begged for the favor of Jehovah, and the king’s hand was restored to its former condition. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The king then said to the man of the true God: “Come home with me and take some food, and let me give you a gift.” <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But the man of the true God said to the king: “Even if you gave me half your house, I would not come with you and eat bread or drink water in this place. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For this is what I was commanded by <span id="page505" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="505" data-before-text="505"></span>the word of Jehovah: ‘You must not eat bread or drink water, and you must not return by the way you came.’” <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So he left by another way, and he did not return by the way he had come to Bethʹel.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="pos77094"></span><span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> There was a certain old prophet dwelling in Bethʹel, and his sons came home and related to him all the things that the man of the true God had done that day in Bethʹel and the words he had spoken to the king. After they related this to their father, <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> their father asked them: “Which way did he go?” So his sons showed him the way that the man of the true God from Judah had gone. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He now said to his sons: “Saddle the donkey for me.” They saddled the donkey for him, and he mounted it.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He followed the man of the true God and found him sitting under a big tree. Then he said to him: “Are you the man of the true God who came from Judah?” He replied: “I am.” <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He said to him: “Come home with me and eat bread.” <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But he said: “I cannot go back with you or accept your invitation, nor may I eat bread or drink water with you in this place. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For I was told by the word of Jehovah, ‘You must not eat bread or drink water there. You must not return by the way you came.’” <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At this he said to him: “I too am a prophet like you, and an angel told me by the word of Jehovah, ‘Have him come back with you to your house so that he may eat bread and drink water.’” (He deceived him.) <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So he went back with him to eat bread and drink water in his house.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> While they were sitting at the table, the word of Jehovah came to the prophet who had brought him back, <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and he called out to the man of the true God from Judah, saying, “This is what Jehovah says: ‘Because you rebelled against the order of Jehovah and did not keep the commandment that Jehovah your God gave you, <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> but you went back to eat bread and drink water in the place about which you were told, “Do not eat bread or drink water,” your dead body will not come into the tomb of your forefathers.’”</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After the man of the true God ate bread and drank, the old prophet saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought back. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then he got on his way, but a lion came across him on the road and killed him. His dead body was thrown onto the road, and the donkey stood beside it; the lion was also standing beside the dead body. <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> There were men passing by who saw the dead body thrown onto the road and the lion standing beside the dead body. They came in and told about it in the city where the old prophet lived.</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When the prophet who had brought him back from the road heard of it, he immediately said: “It is the man of the true God who rebelled against the order of Jehovah; so Jehovah gave him over to the lion, to maul and to kill him, according to the word of Jehovah that he spoke to him.” <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> He then said to his sons: “Saddle the donkey for me.” So they saddled it. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then he went on his way and found the dead body thrown onto the road, with the donkey and the lion standing beside it. The lion had not eaten the dead body, nor had it mauled the donkey. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The prophet lifted up the dead body of the man of the true God and put him on the donkey, and he brought him back into his own city to mourn and bury him. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So he laid the dead body in his own tomb, and <span id="page506" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="506" data-before-text="506"></span>they kept crying out over him: “Too bad, my brother!” <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> After burying him, he told his sons: “When I die, you must bury me in the place where the man of the true God is buried. Lay my bones next to his bones. <span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The word that he called out by the word of Jehovah against the altar in Bethʹel and against all the houses of worship on the high places in the cities of Sa·marʹi·a is sure to take place.”</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Even after this happened, Jer·o·boʹam did not turn back from his bad way, but he kept appointing priests for the high places from the people in general. He would install as priests<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> anyone who so desired, saying: “Let him become one of the priests for the high places.” <span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> This sin on the part of the household of Jer·o·boʹam led to their destruction and annihilation from the face of the earth.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:3</span></a> Or “portent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:3</span></a> Or “portent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:3</span></a> Or “fatty ashes,” that is, ashes soaked with the fat of the sacrifices.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:4</span></a> Or “was paralyzed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:5</span></a> Or “portent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:6</span></a> Or “soften the face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061115-split13.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 13:33</span></a> Lit., “fill the hand of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
