<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_23.xhtml">1 - 49</a></p>
<p id="p204" data-pid="204" class="p204 sb"><span id="pos91532"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, there were two women who were the daughters of the same mother. <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They became prostitutes in Egypt; from their youth they engaged in prostitution. Their breasts were squeezed there, and their virgin bosoms were fondled. <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Their names were O·hoʹlah,<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> the older one, and her sister O·hoʹli·bah.<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> They became mine and gave birth to sons and daughters. As for their names, O·hoʹlah is Sa·marʹi·a, and O·hoʹli·bah is Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p205" data-pid="205" class="p205 sb"><span id="pos92030"></span><span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “O·hoʹlah began to prostitute herself while she belonged to me. She lusted after her passionate lovers, her neighbors the As·syrʹi·ans. <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They were governors clothed in blue and deputy rulers—all desirable young men mounted on their horses. <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> She continued to prostitute herself with all the choicest sons of As·syrʹi·a, and she defiled herself with the disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> of those she lusted after. <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> She did not abandon the prostitution she practiced in Egypt, for in her youth they had lain down with her, and they fondled her virgin bosom and poured out their lust<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> on her. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So I gave her into the hand of her passionate lovers, the sons of As·syrʹi·a, after whom she had lusted. <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They exposed her nakedness and seized her sons and daughters, and they killed her with a sword. She became notorious among women, and they executed judgment against her.</p>
<p id="p206" data-pid="206" class="p206 sb"><span id="pos92910"></span><span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “When her sister O·hoʹli·bah saw it, her lust became even more depraved, and her prostitution was worse than that of her sister. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> She lusted after her neighbors the sons of As·syrʹi·a, the governors and deputy rulers who were clothed in splendor and mounted on horses—all desirable young men. <span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When she defiled herself, I saw that both of them had followed the same course. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But she kept adding to her acts of prostitution. She saw men carved on the wall, images of Chal·deʹans <span id="page1164" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1164" data-before-text="1164"></span>carved in vermilion,<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> wearing belts around their waist, with flowing turbans on their heads, having the appearance of warriors, all of them depicting Babylonians, born in the land of the Chal·deʹans. <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> She began to lust after them as soon as she saw them, and she sent messengers to them in Chal·deʹa. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So the sons of Babylon kept coming to her bed of lovemaking, and they defiled her with their lust.<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> After she was defiled by them, she<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> turned away from them in disgust.</p>
<p id="p207" data-pid="207" class="p207 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “When she went on brazenly engaging in prostitution and exposing her nakedness, I turned away from her in disgust, just as I<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> had turned away from her sister in disgust. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And she kept increasing her acts of prostitution, calling to mind the days of her youth when she prostituted herself in the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> She lusted after them like the concubines of men whose male members are like those of a donkey and whose genitals are like those of a horse. <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You yearned for the obscene conduct of your youth in Egypt when they fondled your bosom, the breasts of your youth.</p>
<p id="p208" data-pid="208" class="p208 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “Therefore, O·hoʹli·bah, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Here I am stirring up your lovers whom you<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> turned away from in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every direction, <span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> the sons of Babylon and all the Chal·deʹans, the men of Peʹkod and Shoʹa and Koʹa, along with all the sons of As·syrʹi·a. All of them are desirable young men, governors and deputy rulers, warriors and handpicked,<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> all mounted on horses. <span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They will attack you with rumbling war chariots and wheels and with a great assembly of troops, with large shield and buckler<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> and helmet. They will take up positions all around you, and I will authorize them to pass judgment, and they will judge you as they see fit. <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> I will express my indignation against you, and they will deal with you in their rage. They will cut off your nose and your ears, and those of you who remain will fall by the sword. They will take away your sons and your daughters, and those of you who remain will be consumed by fire. <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> They will strip off your garments and seize your beautiful jewelry.<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> I will put an end to your obscene conduct and your prostitution, which started in the land of Egypt. You will stop looking at them, and you will remember Egypt no more.’</p>
<p id="p209" data-pid="209" class="p209 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Here I am about to hand you over to those you hate, those you<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> turned away from in disgust. <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> They will deal with you in hatred and take away all you have toiled for and leave you naked and exposed. The shameful nakedness of your immorality and your obscene conduct and your prostitution will be exposed. <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> These things will be done to you because you chased after the nations like a prostitute, because you defiled yourself with their disgusting idols. <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> You have followed the same course as your sister, and I will put her cup into your hand.’</p>
<p id="p210" data-pid="210" class="p210 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p211" data-pid="211" class="p211 sz"><span id="page1165" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1165" data-before-text="1165"></span>‘You will drink the deep and wide cup of your sister,</p><p data-pid="211" class="p211 sz">And you will become an object of laughter and ridicule, of which the cup contains much.</p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> You will be overcome by<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> drunkenness and grief,</p><p data-pid="212" class="p212 sz">A cup of horror and desolation,</p><p data-pid="212" class="p212 sz">The cup of your sister, Sa·marʹi·a.</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> You will have to drink it and drain it dry and gnaw on its earthenware fragments</p><p data-pid="213" class="p213 sz">And then tear out your breasts.</p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sz">“For I myself have spoken,” declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because you have forgotten me and have completely disregarded me,<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> you will bear the consequences of your obscene conduct and your acts of prostitution.’”</p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="pos97163"></span><span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to me: “Son of man, will you pronounce judgment on O·hoʹlah and O·hoʹli·bah and confront them with their disgusting practices? <span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They have committed adultery,<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> and there is blood on their hands. Not only have they committed adultery with their disgusting idols, but they have also made their sons whom they bore to me pass through the fire as food for their idols. <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Moreover, this is what they have done to me: They defiled my sanctuary on that day, and they profaned my sabbaths. <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> After they slaughtered their sons as sacrifices to their disgusting idols, they came into my sanctuary to profane it on that very day. That is what they did inside my own house. <span id="chapter23_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> They even sent a messenger for men to come from far away. When they were coming, you washed yourself and painted your eyes and adorned yourself with ornaments. <span id="chapter23_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And you sat down on a magnificent couch with a table set in front of it, on which you put my incense and my oil. <span id="chapter23_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> The sound of a carefree crowd of men was heard there, among whom were drunkards brought in from the wilderness. They put bracelets on the hands of the women and beautiful crowns on their heads.</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> “Then I said regarding her who was worn out with adultery: ‘Now she will keep committing her prostitution.’ <span id="chapter23_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> So they kept going in to her, just as one goes to a prostitute. That is how they went in to O·hoʹlah and to O·hoʹli·bah, the women of obscene conduct. <span id="chapter23_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But righteous men will render to her the appropriate judgment for adultery and bloodshed; for adulteresses is what they are, and they have blood on their hands.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘An army will be brought against them to make them an object of horror and something to plunder. <span id="chapter23_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> The army will hurl stones at them and cut them down with their swords. They will kill their sons and daughters and burn their houses with fire. <span id="chapter23_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> I will put an end to the obscene conduct in the land, and all the women will learn a lesson and not copy your obscene conduct. <span id="chapter23_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> They will bring on you the consequences of your obscene conduct and of your sins with your disgusting idols; and you will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p761" data-pid="761"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:4</span></a> Meaning “Her Tent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p762" data-pid="762"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:4</span></a> Meaning “My Tent Is in Her.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p763" data-pid="763"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:7</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p764" data-pid="764"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:8</span></a> Or “immoral intercourse.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p765" data-pid="765"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:14</span></a> Or “red.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p766" data-pid="766"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:17</span></a> Or “immoral intercourse.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p767" data-pid="767"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:17</span></a> Or “her soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p768" data-pid="768"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:18</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p769" data-pid="769"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:22</span></a> Or “your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p770" data-pid="770"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:23</span></a> Lit., “summoned ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p771" data-pid="771"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:24</span></a> A small shield, often carried by archers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p772" data-pid="772"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:26</span></a> Or “ornaments.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p773" data-pid="773"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:28</span></a> Or “your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p774" data-pid="774"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:33</span></a> Lit., “filled with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p id="p775" data-pid="775"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:35</span></a> Lit., “have cast me behind your back.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p id="p776" data-pid="776"><a href="1001061130-split23.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 23:37</span></a> That is, spiritual adultery.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
