<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_13.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p513" data-pid="513" class="p513 sb"><span id="pos54387"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>This is what Jehovah told me: “Go and buy a linen belt for yourself and put it around your waist, but do not dip it in water.” <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So I bought the belt according to the word of Jehovah and put it around my waist. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah came to me a second time: <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Take the belt that you bought and are wearing and get up, go to the Eu·phraʹtes, and hide it there in a cleft of the crag.” <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So I went and hid it by the Eu·phraʹtes, just as Jehovah had commanded me.</p>
<p id="p514" data-pid="514" class="p514 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But many days later Jehovah said to me: “Get up, go to the Eu·phraʹtes, and take from there the belt that I commanded you to hide there.” <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So I went to the Eu·phraʹtes and dug up the belt and took it from the place where I had hidden it, and <span id="page1054" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1054" data-before-text="1054"></span>I saw that the belt had been ruined; it was completely useless.</p>
<p id="p515" data-pid="515" class="p515 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to me: <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says, ‘In the same way I will destroy the pride of Judah and the immense pride of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> These evil people who refuse to obey my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart, and who are following other gods, serving and bowing down to them, will become just like this belt that is completely useless.’ <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> ‘For just as a belt clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to me,’ declares Jehovah, ‘to become to me a people, a name, a praise, and something beautiful. But they did not obey.’</p>
<p id="p516" data-pid="516" class="p516 sb"><span id="pos55820"></span><span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “And you must also give this message to them, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: “Every large jar should be filled with wine.”’ And they will reply to you, ‘Do we not already know that every large jar should be filled with wine?’ <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Here I am filling with drunkenness all the inhabitants of this land, the kings sitting on the throne of David, the priests and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And I will smash them against each other, fathers and sons alike,” declares Jehovah. “I will not show compassion or feel any sorrow or have any mercy on them; nothing will stop me from bringing them to ruin.”’</p>
<p id="p517" data-pid="517" class="p517 sl"><span id="pos56518"></span><span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Hear and pay attention.</p>
<p id="p518" data-pid="518" class="p518 sz">Do not be haughty, for Jehovah has spoken.</p>
<p id="p519" data-pid="519" class="p519 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Give glory to Jehovah your God</p><p data-pid="519" class="p519 sz">Before he brings darkness</p><p data-pid="519" class="p519 sz">And before your feet stumble on the mountains at dusk.</p>
<p id="p520" data-pid="520" class="p520 sz">You will hope for the light,</p><p data-pid="520" class="p520 sz">But he will bring deep shadow;</p><p data-pid="520" class="p520 sz">He will turn it into thick gloom.</p>
<p id="p521" data-pid="521" class="p521 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And if you refuse to listen,</p><p data-pid="521" class="p521 sz">I<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> will weep in secret because of your pride.</p>
<p id="p522" data-pid="522" class="p522 sz">I will shed many tears, and my eyes will stream with tears,</p><p data-pid="522" class="p522 sz">Because the flock of Jehovah has been carried away captive.</p>
<p id="p523" data-pid="523" class="p523 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Tell the king and the queen mother,<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> ‘Sit in a lower place,</p><p data-pid="523" class="p523 sz">For your beautiful crown will fall from your head.’</p>
<p id="p524" data-pid="524" class="p524 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The cities of the south are shut,<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> with no one to open them.</p>
<p id="p525" data-pid="525" class="p525 sz">All of Judah has been taken into exile, taken completely into exile.</p>
<p id="p526" data-pid="526" class="p526 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Raise your eyes and see those coming from the north.</p>
<p id="p527" data-pid="527" class="p527 sz">Where is the flock you were given, your beautiful sheep?</p>
<p id="p528" data-pid="528" class="p528 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> What will you say when your punishment comes</p><p data-pid="528" class="p528 sz">From your close friends whom you cultivated from the start?</p>
<p id="p529" data-pid="529" class="p529 sz">Will not birth pains seize you, like those of a woman giving birth?</p>
<p id="p530" data-pid="530" class="p530 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And when you say in your heart, ‘Why have these things befallen me?’</p>
<p id="p531" data-pid="531" class="p531 sz">It is because of your great error that your skirts have been stripped off</p>
<p id="p532" data-pid="532" class="p532 sz">And your heels have been treated violently.</p>
<p id="p533" data-pid="533" class="p533 sl"><span id="pos57802"></span><span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Can a Cushʹite<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> change his skin, or a leopard its spots?</p>
<p id="p534" data-pid="534" class="p534 sz"><span id="page1055" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1055" data-before-text="1055"></span>If so, then you can do good,</p><p data-pid="534" class="p534 sz">You who are trained to do bad.</p>
<p id="p535" data-pid="535" class="p535 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So I will scatter them like straw blown by the desert wind.</p>
<p id="p536" data-pid="536" class="p536 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> This is your lot, the portion that I have measured out to you,” declares Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="536" class="p536 sz">“Because you have forgotten me and you trust in lies.</p>
<p id="p537" data-pid="537" class="p537 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Therefore, I will lift up your skirts over your face,</p><p data-pid="537" class="p537 sz">And your shame will be seen,</p><p data-pid="537" class="p537 sl"><span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Your acts of adultery and your lustful neighing,</p><p data-pid="537" class="p537 sz">Your obscene<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> prostitution.</p>
<p id="p538" data-pid="538" class="p538 sz">On the hills, in the field,</p><p data-pid="538" class="p538 sz">I have seen your disgusting behavior.</p>
<p id="p539" data-pid="539" class="p539 sz">Woe to you, O Jerusalem!</p>
<p id="p540" data-pid="540" class="p540 sz">How much longer will you remain unclean?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p1706" data-pid="1706"><a href="1001061128-split13.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 13:17</span></a> Or “My soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p1707" data-pid="1707"><a href="1001061128-split13.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 13:18</span></a> Or “the lady.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p1708" data-pid="1708"><a href="1001061128-split13.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 13:19</span></a> Or “besieged.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p1709" data-pid="1709"><a href="1001061128-split13.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 13:23</span></a> Or “an Ethiopian.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p1710" data-pid="1710"><a href="1001061128-split13.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 13:27</span></a> Or “shameful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
