<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_16.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="pos70169"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>One time Samson went to Gazʹa and saw a prostitute there, and he went in to her. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The Gazʹites were told: “Samson has come here.” So they surrounded him and lay in ambush for him all night long in the city gate. They stayed quiet the whole night, saying <span id="page382" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="382" data-before-text="382"></span>to themselves: “When daylight comes, we will kill him.”</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, Samson kept lying there until midnight. Then he got up at midnight and grabbed the doors of the city gate and the two side posts and pulled them out along with the bar. He put them on his shoulders and carried them up to the top of the mountain that faces Hebʹron.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="pos70769"></span><span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> After that he fell in love with a woman in the Valley<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> of Soʹrek whose name was De·liʹlah. <span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines approached her and said: “Trick<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> him and find out what gives him such great strength and how we can overpower him and tie him and subdue him. For this we will each give you 1,100 silver pieces.”</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> De·liʹlah later said to Samson: “Please tell me where your great power comes from and what can be used to tie you and subdue you.” <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Samson said to her: “If they tie me with seven fresh bowstrings<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> that have not been dried out, I will grow as weak as an ordinary man.” <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that had not been dried out, and she tied him with them. <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now they set an ambush in the inner room, and she called out to him: “The Phi·lisʹtines are upon you, Samson!” At that he tore apart the bowstrings, just as easily as a thread of flax<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> comes apart when it touches fire. The secret of his power did not become known.</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then De·liʹlah said to Samson: “Look! You have fooled me<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> and told me lies. Now tell me, please, what can be used to tie you.” <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So he said to her: “If they tie me up with new ropes that have not been used for work, I will grow as weak as an ordinary man.” <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So De·liʹlah took new ropes and tied him with them and called out: “The Phi·lisʹtines are upon you, Samson!” (All the while the ambush was set in the inner room.) At that he tore them off his arms like threads.</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> After that De·liʹlah said to Samson: “Up until now you have fooled me and told me lies. Tell me what can be used to tie you.” Then he said to her: “If you weave the seven braids of my head with the warp thread.” <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So she fixed them with a pin and called out to him: “The Phi·lisʹtines are upon you, Samson!” So he woke up from his sleep and pulled out the loom pin and the warp thread.</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> She now said to him: “How can you say, ‘I love you,’ when your heart is not with me? These three times you have fooled me and have not told me the source of your great power.” <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Because day after day she kept nagging him and pressuring him, he<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> was weary to the point of dying. <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he finally opened his heart to her, saying: “A razor has never touched my head, because I am a Nazʹi·rite of God from birth.<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> If I am shaved, my power will leave me and I will grow weak and become like all other men.”</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When De·liʹlah saw that he had opened his heart to her, she immediately summoned the Phi·lisʹtine lords, saying: “Come up this time, for he has opened his heart to me.” So the Phi·lisʹtine lords came up to her, bringing the money with them. <span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> She made him fall asleep on her knees; then she called the man and had him shave off the seven braids of his head. After that <span id="page383" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="383" data-before-text="383"></span>she began to have control over him, for his power was leaving him. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now she called out: “The Phi·lisʹtines are upon you, Samson!” He woke up from his sleep and said: “I will go out as at other times and shake myself free.” But he did not know that Jehovah had left him. <span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So the Phi·lisʹtines seized him and bored his eyes out. Then they brought him down to Gazʹa and bound him with two copper fetters, and he became a grinder of grain in the prison. <span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But the hair of his head started to grow back again after he had been shaved.</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="pos74117"></span><span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The Phi·lisʹtine lords gathered together to offer a great sacrifice to Daʹgon their god and to celebrate, for they were saying: “Our god has given Samson our enemy into our hand!” <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> When the people saw him, they praised their god and said: “Our god has given into our hand our enemy, the one who devastated our land and killed so many of us.”</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Because their heart was cheerful, they said: “Call Samson to provide us some amusement.” So they called Samson out of the prison to entertain them; they made him stand between the pillars. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then Samson said to the boy holding him by the hand: “Let me feel the pillars that support the house, so that I can lean against them.” <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> (Incidentally, the house was full of men and women. All the Phi·lisʹtine lords were there, and on the roof there were about 3,000 men and women who were looking on while Samson provided amusement.)</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Samson now called out to Jehovah: “Sovereign Lord Jehovah, remember me, please, and strengthen me, please, just this once, O God, and let me take revenge on the Phi·lisʹtines for one of my two eyes.”</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Samson braced himself against the two middle pillars that supported the house, and he leaned on them with his right hand on one and his left hand on the other. <span id="chapter16_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Samson called out: “Let me<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> die with the Phi·lisʹtines!” Then he pushed with all his might, and the house fell on the lords and all the people in it. So he killed more at his death than he had killed during his life.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Later his brothers and all his father’s family came down to take him back. They brought him up and buried him between Zoʹrah and Eshʹta·ol in the tomb of Ma·noʹah his father. He had judged Israel for 20 years.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p356" data-pid="356"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:4</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p357" data-pid="357"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:5</span></a> Or “Persuade.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p358" data-pid="358"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:7</span></a> Or “sinews.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p359" data-pid="359"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:9</span></a> Or “tow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p360" data-pid="360"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:10</span></a> Or “trifled with me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:16</span></a> Or “his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p362" data-pid="362"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:17</span></a> Lit., “from my mother’s womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061111-split16.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 16:30</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
