<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_2.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos8553"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>When the time of David’s death drew near, he gave his son Solʹo·mon these instructions: <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “I am about to die.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> Therefore, be strong and prove yourself a man. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must keep your obligation to Jehovah your God by walking in his ways and by observing his statutes, his commandments, his judgments, and his reminders as they are written in the Law of Moses; then you will succeed<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> in everything you do and everywhere you turn. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And Jehovah will carry out his promise that he made concerning me: ‘If your sons pay attention to their way by walking faithfully before me with all their heart and soul,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> there will never fail to be a man of your line<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> sitting on the throne of Israel.’</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “You also well know what Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah did to me, what he did to two chiefs of the armies of Israel—Abʹner the son of Ner and A·maʹsa the son of Jeʹther. He killed them, shedding the blood of war in peacetime, and he put the blood of war on the belt around his waist and on the sandals on his feet. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You must act according to your wisdom and not let his gray <span id="page483" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="483" data-before-text="483"></span>hairs go down in peace to the Grave.<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a></p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “But toward the sons of Bar·zilʹlai the Gilʹe·ad·ite, you should show loyal love, and they should be among those eating at your table, for that was how they stood by me when I ran away from your brother Abʹsa·lom.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “There is also with you Shimʹe·i the son of Geʹra the Benʹja·min·ite from Ba·huʹrim. He was the one who cursed me with a vicious curse on the day that I was going to Ma·ha·naʹim; but when he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore to him by Jehovah: ‘I will not put you to death by the sword.’ <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now do not leave him unpunished, for you are a wise man and you know what you should do to him; you must bring his gray hairs down to the Grave<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> with blood.”</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos10363"></span><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then David was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in the City of David. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The length<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of David’s reign over Israel was 40 years. In Hebʹron he reigned for 7 years, and in Jerusalem he reigned for 33 years.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon then sat down on the throne of David his father, and gradually his kingship became firmly established.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos10718"></span><span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In time Ad·o·niʹjah the son of Hagʹgith came to Bath-sheʹba, Solʹo·mon’s mother. She asked: “Is your coming peaceable?” He replied: “It is peaceable.” <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He then said: “I have something to say to you.” So she said: “Speak.” <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He continued: “You well know that the kingship was to become mine, and all Israel expected<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> me to become king; but the kingship eluded me and became my brother’s, for it was from Jehovah that it became his. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But now there is just one request that I am making of you. Do not turn me away.” So she said to him: “Speak.” <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He then said: “Please, ask Solʹo·mon the king—for he will not turn you away—to give me Abʹi·shag the Shuʹnam·mite as a wife.” <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> To this Bath-sheʹba said: “Very well! I will speak for you to the king.”</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So Bath-sheʹba went in to King Solʹo·mon to speak to him for Ad·o·niʹjah. At once the king rose to meet her and bowed down to her. Then he sat down on his throne and had a throne set for the king’s mother, so that she could sit at his right. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> She then said: “There is one small request that I am making of you. Do not turn me away.” So the king said to her: “Make it, my mother; for I will not turn you away.” <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> She said: “Let Abʹi·shag the Shuʹnam·mite be given as a wife to your brother Ad·o·niʹjah.” <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> At this King Solʹo·mon answered his mother: “Why are you requesting Abʹi·shag the Shuʹnam·mite for Ad·o·niʹjah? You may as well request the kingship for him, for he is my older brother, and supporting him are A·biʹa·thar the priest and Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> With that King Solʹo·mon swore by Jehovah: “So may God do to me and add to it if it was not at the cost of his own life<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> that Ad·o·niʹjah made this request. <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And now, as surely as Jehovah is living, who has firmly established me and seated me on the throne of David my father and who made a house<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> for me, just as he promised, Ad·o·niʹjah will be put to death today.” <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon immediately sent Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da, who went out and <span id="page484" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="484" data-before-text="484"></span>struck Ad·o·niʹjah down,<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> and he died.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos12814"></span><span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> To A·biʹa·thar the priest, the king said: “Go to your fields in Anʹa·thoth! You deserve to die, but on this day I will not put you to death because you carried the Ark of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah before David my father and because you shared in all the hardships that my father suffered.” <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So Solʹo·mon drove A·biʹa·thar out from serving as a priest of Jehovah, to fulfill Jehovah’s word against the house of Eʹli in Shiʹloh.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When the news reached Joʹab—for Joʹab had supported Ad·o·niʹjah but he had not supported Abʹsa·lom—Joʹab fled to the tent of Jehovah and grabbed hold of the horns of the altar. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then King Solʹo·mon was told: “Joʹab has fled to the tent of Jehovah, and he is there beside the altar.” So Solʹo·mon sent Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da, saying: “Go, strike him down!” <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So Be·naiʹah went to the tent of Jehovah and said to him: “This is what the king says, ‘Come out!’” But he said: “No! I will die here.” Be·naiʹah brought word back to the king: “This is what Joʹab said, and this is what he answered me.” <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then the king said to him: “Do just as he said; strike him down and bury him and remove from me and from the house of my father the blood that Joʹab spilled without just cause. <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Jehovah will bring his blood back on his own head, for without my father David’s knowledge, he struck down and killed with the sword two men more righteous and better than he was: Abʹner the son of Ner, the chief of the army of Israel, and A·maʹsa the son of Jeʹther, the chief of the army of Judah. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Their blood will come back on the head of Joʹab and on the head of his offspring<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> forever; but for David, his offspring,<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> his house, and his throne, may there be peace from Jehovah forever.” <span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Then Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da went up and struck Joʹab down and put him to death, and he was buried at his own house in the wilderness. <span id="chapter2_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then the king appointed Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da over the army in his place, and the king appointed Zaʹdok the priest in place of A·biʹa·thar.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos14886"></span><span id="chapter2_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then the king summoned Shimʹe·i and said to him: “Build yourself a house in Jerusalem, and live there; do not go out from there to any other place. <span id="chapter2_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> On the day you go out and cross the Kidʹron Valley, you can be sure that you will die. Your blood will be on your own head.” <span id="chapter2_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Shimʹe·i replied to the king: “What you have said is fair. Your servant will do just as my lord the king has said.” So Shimʹe·i stayed in Jerusalem for many days.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But at the end of three years, two of Shimʹe·i’s slaves ran away to Aʹchish the son of Maʹa·cah the king of Gath. When Shimʹe·i was told: “Look! Your slaves are in Gath,” <span id="chapter2_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Shimʹe·i immediately saddled his donkey and went to see Aʹchish in Gath to find his slaves. When Shimʹe·i returned from Gath with his slaves, <span id="chapter2_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon was told: “Shimʹe·i has gone out of Jerusalem to Gath and has returned.” <span id="chapter2_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> At that the king summoned Shimʹe·i and said to him: “Did I not put you under oath by Jehovah and warn you: ‘On the day you go out from here to any other place, you can be sure that you will die’? And did you not say to me, <span id="page485" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="485" data-before-text="485"></span>‘What you are saying is fair; I will obey’? <span id="chapter2_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Why, then, did you not keep the oath of Jehovah and the commandment that I imposed on you?” <span id="chapter2_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> The king then said to Shimʹe·i: “You know in your heart all the injury that you did to David my father, and Jehovah will bring back that injury on your own head. <span id="chapter2_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But King Solʹo·mon will be blessed, and the throne of David will be firmly established before Jehovah forever.” <span id="chapter2_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> With that the king commanded Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da, who went out and struck him down, and he died.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb">Thus the kingdom was firmly established in the hand of Solʹo·mon.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p229" data-pid="229"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:2</span></a> Lit., “I am going in the way of all the earth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:3</span></a> Or “act wisely.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p231" data-pid="231"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p232" data-pid="232"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:4</span></a> Lit., “will not be cut off from you a man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p233" data-pid="233"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:6</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:9</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:11</span></a> Lit., “The days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:15</span></a> Lit., “had set their faces on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:23</span></a> Or “not against his own soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:24</span></a> Or “dynasty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:25</span></a> Or “who fell upon Adonijah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:33</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061115-split2.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 2:33</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
