<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_10.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="page337" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="337" data-before-text="337"></span><span id="pos36404"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>As soon as King A·doʹni-zeʹdek of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had captured Aʹi and devoted it to destruction, doing to Aʹi and its king just as he had done to Jerʹi·cho and its king, and how the inhabitants of Gibʹe·on had made peace with Israel and remained among them, <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> he was greatly alarmed, because Gibʹe·on was a great city, like one of the royal cities. It was greater than Aʹi, and all its men were warriors. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So A·doʹni-zeʹdek king of Jerusalem sent this message to Hoʹham king of Hebʹron, Piʹram king of Jarʹmuth, Ja·phiʹa king of Laʹchish, and Deʹbir king of Egʹlon: <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Come to my aid, and let us attack Gibʹe·on, because it has made peace with Joshua and the Israelites.” <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this the five kings of the Amʹor·ites—the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebʹron, the king of Jarʹmuth, the king of Laʹchish, and the king of Egʹlon—gathered together along with their armies, and they marched on and encamped against Gibʹe·on to fight against it.</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the men of Gibʹe·on sent word to Joshua at the camp at Gilʹgal: “Do not forsake<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> your slaves. Come quickly! Rescue us and help us! All the kings of the Amʹor·ites from the mountainous region have gathered against us.” <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So Joshua went up from Gilʹgal with all the fighting men and the mighty warriors.</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="pos37697"></span><span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Joshua: “Do not be afraid of them, for I have handed them over to you. Not one of them will be able to stand against you.” <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Joshua came against them by surprise after marching all night long from Gilʹgal. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jehovah threw them into confusion before Israel, and they inflicted a great slaughter on them at Gibʹe·on, pursuing them by way of the ascent of Beth-hoʹron and striking them down as far as A·zeʹkah and Mak·keʹdah. <span id="pos38155"></span><span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> While they were fleeing from Israel and were on the descent of Beth-hoʹron, Jehovah hurled great hailstones from the sky on them as far as A·zeʹkah, and they perished. In fact, more died from the hail than from the sword of the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="pos38401"></span><span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> It was then, on the day that Jehovah routed the Amʹor·ites before the eyes of the Israelites, that Joshua said to Jehovah before Israel:</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sz">“Sun, stand still over Gibʹe·on,</p><p data-pid="75" class="p75 sz">And moon, over the Valley<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> of Aiʹja·lon!”</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So the sun stood still and the moon did not move until the nation could take vengeance on its enemies. Is it not written in the book of Jaʹshar? The sun stood still in the middle of the sky and did not hasten to set for about a whole day. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> There has never been a day like that one, either before it or after it, when Jehovah listened to the voice of a man, for Jehovah was fighting for Israel.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> After that Joshua together with all Israel returned to the camp at Gilʹgal.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="pos39120"></span><span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Meanwhile, the five kings fled and hid in the cave at Mak·keʹdah. <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then it was reported to Joshua: “The five kings have been found hiding in the cave at Mak·keʹdah.” <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Joshua said: “Roll large stones over the mouth of the cave and assign men to guard them. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But the rest of you should not stop. Pursue your enemies and strike them from the rear. Do not allow them to enter into their cities, for Jehovah your <span id="page338" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="338" data-before-text="338"></span>God has given them into your hands.”</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After Joshua and the Israelites had finished inflicting a very great slaughter on them, to the point of wiping them out except for some survivors who escaped and entered into the fortified cities, <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> all the people returned safely to Joshua at the camp at Mak·keʹdah. Not a man dared to utter a word<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> against the Israelites. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then Joshua said: “Open the mouth of the cave and bring the five kings out of the cave to me.” <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So they brought to him from the cave these five kings: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebʹron, the king of Jarʹmuth, the king of Laʹchish, and the king of Egʹlon. <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> When they brought these kings to Joshua, he summoned all the men of Israel and said to the commanders of the fighting men who had gone with him: “Come forward. Place your feet on the backs of the necks of these kings.” So they came forward and placed their feet on the backs of their necks. <span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then Joshua said to them: “Do not be afraid or be terrified. Be courageous and strong, for this is what Jehovah will do to all your enemies against whom you are fighting.”</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then Joshua struck them and put them to death and hung them on five stakes,<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> and they remained hanging on the stakes until the evening. <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> At sunset Joshua ordered that they be taken down off the stakes and thrown into the cave where they had hidden themselves. Then large stones were placed at the mouth of the cave, and these remain to this very day.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Joshua captured Mak·keʹdah on that day and struck it with the sword. He devoted its king and everyone<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> in it to destruction, letting no survivor remain. He did to the king of Mak·keʹdah just as he had done to the king of Jerʹi·cho.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="pos41287"></span><span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Joshua together with all Israel went from Mak·keʹdah to Libʹnah and fought against Libʹnah. <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Jehovah also gave it and its king into Israel’s hand, and they struck it and everyone<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> in it with the sword, not letting a survivor remain in it. So they did to its king just as they had done to the king of Jerʹi·cho.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Next Joshua together with all Israel went from Libʹnah to Laʹchish and camped there and fought against it. <span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Jehovah gave Laʹchish into Israel’s hand, and they captured it on the second day. They struck it and everyone<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> in it with the sword, just as they had done to Libʹnah.</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Then Hoʹram king of Geʹzer went up to help Laʹchish, but Joshua struck him and his people down until not one survivor remained.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Then Joshua together with all Israel went from Laʹchish to Egʹlon and camped there and fought against it. <span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> They captured it on that day and struck it with the sword. They devoted everyone<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> in it to destruction on that day, just as they had done to Laʹchish.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then Joshua together with all Israel went up from Egʹlon to Hebʹron and fought against it. <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They captured it and struck it, its king, its towns, and everyone<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> in it with the sword, not letting any survivor remain. Just as he had done to Egʹlon, he devoted it and everyone<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> in it to destruction.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Finally Joshua together with all Israel turned toward Deʹbir and fought against it. <span id="page339" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="339" data-before-text="339"></span><span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> He captured it, its king, and all its towns, and they struck them down with the sword, devoting everyone<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> in it to destruction, not letting any survivor remain. He did to Deʹbir and its king just as he had done to Hebʹron and to Libʹnah and its king.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Joshua conquered all the land of the mountainous region, the Negʹeb, the She·pheʹlah, and the slopes, and all their kings, not letting any survivor remain; he devoted everything that breathed to destruction, just as Jehovah the God of Israel had commanded. <span id="chapter10_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Joshua conquered them from Kaʹdesh-barʹne·a to Gazʹa and all the land of Goʹshen and up to Gibʹe·on. <span id="chapter10_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Joshua captured all these kings and their land, all at the same time, because it was Jehovah the God of Israel who was fighting for Israel. <span id="chapter10_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Then Joshua returned with all Israel to the camp at Gilʹgal.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:6</span></a> Lit., “let your hand drop from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:12</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:21</span></a> Lit., “sharpened his tongue.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:26</span></a> Or “trees.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:28</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:30</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:32</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:35</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:37</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:37</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061110-split10.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 10:39</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
