<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_4.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos12725"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>The sons of Judah were Peʹrez, Hezʹron, Carʹmi, Hur, and Shoʹbal. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Re·aʹiah the son of Shoʹbal became father to Jaʹhath; Jaʹhath became father to A·huʹmai and Laʹhad. These were the families of the Zoʹrath·ites. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> These were the sons of the father of Eʹtam: Jezʹre·el, Ishʹma, and Idʹbash (and the name of their sister was Haz·ze·lel·poʹni), <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and Pe·nuʹel was the father of Geʹdor, and Eʹzer was the father of Huʹshah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephʹra·thah and the father of Bethʹle·hem. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Ashʹhur the father of Te·koʹa had two wives, Heʹlah and Naʹa·rah. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Naʹa·rah bore to him A·huzʹzam, Heʹpher, Teʹme·ni, and Ha·a·hashʹta·ri. These were the sons of Naʹa·rah. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the sons of Heʹlah were Zeʹreth, Izʹhar, and Ethʹnan. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Koz became father to Aʹnub, Zo·beʹbah, and the families of A·harʹhel the son of Haʹrum.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos13585"></span><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jaʹbez was more honorable than his brothers; and his mother named him Jaʹbez,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> saying: “I gave birth to him in pain.” <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jaʹbez called on the God of Israel, saying: “O that you would bless me and enlarge my territory and let your hand be with me and preserve me from calamity, so that it may bring no harm to me!” So God brought about what he had asked for.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Cheʹlub the brother of Shuʹhah became father to Meʹhir, who was the father of Eshʹton. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Eshʹton became father to Beth-raʹpha, Pa·seʹah, and Te·hinʹnah, the father of Ir-naʹhash. These were the men of Reʹcah. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the sons of Keʹnaz were Othʹni·el and Se·raiʹah, and the son<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> of Othʹni·el was Haʹthath. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Me·oʹno·thai became father to Ophʹrah. Se·raiʹah became father to Joʹab the father of Ge-harʹa·shim,<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> so called because they were craftsmen.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The sons of Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh were Iʹru, Eʹlah, and Naʹam; and the son<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> of Eʹlah was Keʹnaz. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The sons of Je·halʹle·lel were Ziph, Ziʹphah, Tirʹi·a, and Asʹa·rel. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The sons of Ezʹrah were Jeʹther, Meʹred, Eʹpher, and Jaʹlon; she<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> conceived and bore Mirʹi·am, Shamʹmai, and Ishʹbah the father of Esh·te·moʹa. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> (And his Jewish wife gave birth to Jeʹred the father of Geʹdor, Heʹber the father of Soʹco, and Je·kuʹthi·el the father of Za·noʹah.) These were the sons of Bi·thiʹah, the daughter of Pharʹaoh, whom Meʹred married.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Ho·diʹah’s wife, the sister of Naʹham, were the fathers of Keiʹlah the Garʹmite and Esh·te·moʹa the Ma·acʹa·thite. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the sons of Shiʹmon were Amʹnon, Rinʹnah, Ben-haʹnan, and Tiʹlon. And the sons of Ishʹi were Zoʹheth and Ben-zoʹheth.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The sons of Sheʹlah the son of Judah were Er the father of Leʹcah, Laʹa·dah the father of Ma·reʹshah, and the families of the workers of fine fabric of the house of Ash·beʹa, <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> and Joʹkim, the men of Co·zeʹba, Joʹash, and Saʹraph, who became husbands of Moʹab·ite women, and Jashʹu·bi-leʹhem. These records are ancient.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They were potters who lived in Ne·taʹim and Ge·deʹrah. They lived there and worked for the king.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="page572" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="572" data-before-text="572"></span><span id="pos15683"></span><span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The sons of Simʹe·on were Nemʹu·el, Jaʹmin, Jaʹrib, Zeʹrah, and Shaʹul. <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Shalʹlum was his son, Mibʹsam his son, and Mishʹma his son. <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And the sons of Mishʹma were Hamʹmu·el his son, Zacʹcur his son, Shimʹe·i his son. <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And Shimʹe·i had 16 sons and 6 daughters; but his brothers did not have many sons, and none of their families had as many as the men of Judah had. <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> They lived in Beʹer-sheʹba, Mo·laʹdah, Haʹzar-shuʹal, <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Bilʹhah, Eʹzem, Toʹlad, <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Be·thuʹel, Horʹmah, Zikʹlag, <span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Beth-marʹca·both, Haʹzar-suʹsim, Beth-birʹi, and Shaʹa·raʹim. These were their cities until the reign of David.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Their settlements were Eʹtam, Aʹin, Rimʹmon, Toʹchen, and Aʹshan, five cities, <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> along with their settlements that were all around these cities as far as Baʹal. These were their genealogical enrollments and the places where they lived. <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And Me·shoʹbab, Jamʹlech, Joʹshah the son of Am·a·ziʹah, <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Joel, Jeʹhu son of Josh·i·biʹah son of Se·raiʹah son of Asʹi·el, <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> and Eli·o·eʹnai, Ja·a·koʹbah, Jesh·o·haiʹah, A·saiʹah, Adʹi·el, Je·simʹi·el, Be·naiʹah, <span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and Ziʹza son of Shiʹphi son of Alʹlon son of Je·daʹiah son of Shimʹri son of She·maiʹah; <span id="chapter4_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> these mentioned by name were the chieftains among their families, and the household of their forefathers increased in number. <span id="chapter4_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And they went to the entrance of Geʹdor, to the east side of the valley, to look for pastures for their flocks. <span id="chapter4_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> They eventually found rich and good pastures, and the land was spacious, quiet, and undisturbed. Those who previously lived there were Hamʹites. <span id="chapter4_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> These whose names are listed came during the days of King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah and struck down the tents of the Hamʹites and the Me·uʹnim who were there. They devoted them to destruction down to this day; and they settled in their place because there were pastures for their flocks there.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Some of the Simʹe·on·ites, 500 men, went to Mount Seʹir with Pel·a·tiʹah, Ne·a·riʹah, Re·phaʹiah, and Uzʹzi·el, the sons of Ishʹi who led them. <span id="chapter4_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And they struck down the rest of the A·malʹek·ites who had escaped, and they have lived there down to this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p273" data-pid="273"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:9</span></a> The name Jabez may be related to a Hebrew word meaning “pain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p274" data-pid="274"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:13</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p275" data-pid="275"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:14</span></a> Meaning “Valley of Craftsmen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p276" data-pid="276"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:15</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:17</span></a> Possibly referring to Bithiah in vs. 18.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061117-split4.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:22</span></a> Or “The sayings are of old tradition.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
