<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_5.xhtml">1 - 42</a></p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos18761"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>However, a man named An·a·niʹas, together with his wife Sap·phiʹra, sold some property. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But he secretly held back some of the price, with his wife’s knowledge, and he brought just a part of it and deposited it at the feet of the apostles. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But Peter said: “An·a·niʹas, why has Satan emboldened you to lie to the holy spirit and secretly hold back some of the price of the field? <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As long as it remained with you, did it not remain yours? And after it was sold, was it not in your control? Why have you thought up such a deed as this in your heart? You have lied, not to men, but to God.” <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> On hearing these words, An·a·niʹas collapsed and died. And great fear came over all those who heard about it. <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the younger men rose, wrapped him <span id="page1467" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1467" data-before-text="1467"></span>in cloths, carried him out, and buried him.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now after an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Peter said to her: “Tell me, did you two sell the field for so much?” She said: “Yes, for that amount.” <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So Peter said to her: “Why did you two agree to make a test of the spirit of Jehovah?<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> Look! The feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.” <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Instantly she collapsed at his feet and died. When the young men came in, they found her dead and they carried her out and buried her alongside her husband. <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So great fear came over the whole congregation and over all those hearing about these things.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos20224"></span><span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Moreover, through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> continued to occur among the people; and they would all meet together in Solʹo·mon’s Colonnade. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> True, none of the others had the courage to join them; nevertheless, the people were speaking highly of them. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> More than that, believers in the Lord kept on being added, great numbers both of men and of women. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They even brought the sick out into the main streets and laid them there on small beds and mats, so that as Peter would pass by, at least his shadow might fall on some of them. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Also, crowds of people from the cities around Jerusalem kept coming, carrying sick people and those troubled with unclean spirits, and they were one and all cured.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="pos20977"></span><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But the high priest rose, and all those with him, who were of the sect of the Sadducees, and they were filled with jealousy. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And they seized<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> the apostles and put them in the public jail. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But during the night, Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> angel opened the doors of the prison, brought them out, and said: <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Go and take your stand in the temple, and keep on speaking to the people all the sayings about this life.” <span id="pos21401"></span><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After hearing this, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb">Now when the high priest and those with him arrived, they called together the Sanʹhe·drin and the entire assembly of elders of the sons of Israel, and they sent out to the jail to have the apostles brought before them. <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But when the officers got there, they did not find them in the prison. So they returned and made their report, <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> saying: “We found the jail locked and secure, and the guards were standing at the doors, but on opening it up, we found no one inside.” <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Well, when both the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were perplexed about what would come of this. <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But someone came and reported to them: “Look! The men you put in prison are in the temple, standing and teaching the people.” <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then the captain went off with his officers and brought them in, but without violence, because they were afraid of being stoned by the people.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So they brought them and stood them before the Sanʹhe·drin. Then the high priest questioned them <span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and said: “We strictly ordered you not to keep teaching on the basis of this name, and yet look! you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you are determined to <span id="page1468" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1468" data-before-text="1468"></span>bring the blood of this man upon us.” <span id="pos22707"></span><span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In answer Peter and the other apostles said: “We must obey God as ruler rather than men. <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The God of our forefathers raised up Jesus, whom you killed, hanging him on a stake.<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> God exalted this one as Chief Agent and Savior to his right hand, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And we are witnesses of these matters, and so is the holy spirit, which God has given to those obeying him as ruler.”</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos23156"></span><span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> When they heard this, they were infuriated<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> and wanted to do away with them. <span id="chapter5_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But a Pharisee named Ga·maʹli·el rose in the Sanʹhe·drin; he was a Law teacher esteemed by all the people, and he gave the command to put the men outside for a little while. <span id="chapter5_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Men of Israel, be careful as to what you intend to do about these men. <span id="chapter5_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> For instance, before these days Theuʹdas rose up, saying he himself was somebody, and a number of men, about 400, joined his party. But he was done away with, and all those who were following him were dispersed and came to nothing. <span id="chapter5_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> After him, Judas the Gal·i·leʹan rose up in the days of the registration, and he drew followers after himself. That man also perished, and all those who were following him were scattered. <span id="chapter5_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So under the present circumstances, I say to you, do not meddle with these men, but let them alone. For if this scheme or this work is from men, it will be overthrown; <span id="chapter5_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> but if it is from God, you will not be able to overthrow them. Otherwise, you may even be found fighters against God himself.” <span id="chapter5_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> At this they took his advice, and they summoned the apostles, flogged<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> them, and ordered them to stop speaking on the basis of Jesus’ name, and let them go.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos24431"></span><span id="chapter5_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> So they went out from before the Sanʹhe·drin, rejoicing because they had been counted worthy to be dishonored in behalf of his name. <span id="chapter5_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And every day in the temple and from house to house they continued without letup teaching and declaring the good news about the Christ, Jesus.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:12</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:18</span></a> Or “arrested.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:19</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:30</span></a> Or “tree.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:33</span></a> Or “they felt cut.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061148-split5.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 5:40</span></a> Or “beat.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
