<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_21.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="pos81694"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward Jerusalem, and make a proclamation against the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Say to the land of Israel, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, and I will bring my sword out of its sheath and cut off from you both the righteous and the wicked. <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Because I will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked, my sword will be drawn from its sheath against all flesh,<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> from south to north. <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> All people will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have drawn my sword from its sheath. It will not go back again.”’</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “And you, son of man, sigh while you<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> tremble, yes, sigh bitterly before them. <span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And if they say to you, ‘Why are you sighing?’ you will say, ‘Because of a report.’ For it will certainly come, and every heart will melt with fear and every hand will hang limp and every spirit will become dejected and every knee will drip with water.<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> ‘Look! It will certainly come—it will take place,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Son of man, prophesy and say, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Say, ‘A sword! A sword is sharpened, and it is polished. <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> It is sharpened to inflict a great slaughter; it is polished to flash like lightning.’”’”</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb">“Should we not rejoice?”</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb">“‘Will it<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> reject the scepter of my own son, as it does every tree?</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘It is given to be polished and to be wielded with the hand. This sword is sharpened and polished, to be put into the hand of an executioner.</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘Cry out and wail, son of man, for it has come against my people; it is against all the chieftains of Israel. These will be victims of the sword along with my people. So strike your thigh in grief. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For an examination has been made, and what will happen if the sword rejects the scepter? It<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> will cease to exist,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “And you, son of man, prophesy and clap your hands and repeat ‘A sword!’ three times. It is the sword of the slain victims, the sword of great slaughter, that surrounds them. <span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Their hearts will melt with fear and many will fall at their city gates; I will inflict a slaughter by the sword. Yes, it flashes like lightning and is polished for a slaughter! <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Cut sharply to the right! Swing to the left! Go wherever your blade is directed! <span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I will also clap my hands and satisfy my rage. I myself, Jehovah, have spoken.”</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="pos84192"></span><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “As for you, son of man, <span id="page1161" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1161" data-before-text="1161"></span>mark out two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come. Both of them will originate from the same land, and a signpost<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> should be set up where the road branches off to the two cities. <span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You should mark out one way for the sword to come against Rabʹbah of the Amʹmon·ites, and the other way against fortified Jerusalem in Judah. <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For the king of Babylon stops to use divination at the fork in the road, where the two roads branch off. He shakes the arrows. He consults his idols;<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> he examines the liver. <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The divination in his right hand is pointed toward Jerusalem, to set up battering rams, to give the word for slaughter, to sound the battle cry, to set battering rams against the gates, to throw up a siege rampart, to build a siege wall. <span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But it will seem like false divination in the eyes of those<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> who had sworn oaths to them. But he remembers their guilt and will capture them.</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘You have caused your own guilt to be remembered by exposing your transgressions and causing your sins to be seen in all your actions. Now that you have been remembered, you will be taken by force.’<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a></p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="pos85468"></span><span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “But your day has come, O fatally wounded, wicked chieftain of Israel, the time of your final punishment. <span id="pos85581"></span><span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Remove the turban, and take off the crown. This will not remain the same. Raise up the low one, and bring low the high one. <span id="pos85762"></span><span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> A ruin, a ruin, a ruin I will make it. And it will not belong to anyone until the one who has the legal right comes, and I will give it to him.’</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos85916"></span><span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “And you, son of man, prophesy and say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says about the Amʹmon·ites and about their insults.’ Say, ‘A sword! A sword is drawn for a slaughter; it is polished to devour and to flash like lightning. <span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Despite the false visions and lying divination about you, you will be piled up on the slain,<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> the wicked men whose day has come, the time of their final punishment. <span id="chapter21_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Return it to its sheath. I will judge you in the place that you were created, in the land of your origin. <span id="chapter21_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> I will pour out my indignation on you. I will blow upon you with the fire of my fury, and I will hand you over to brutal men, the craftsmen of destruction. <span id="chapter21_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> You will become fuel for the fire; your own blood will be shed in the land, and you will be remembered no more, for I myself, Jehovah, have spoken.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p id="p743" data-pid="743"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:4</span></a> Or “people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p id="p744" data-pid="744"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:6</span></a> Lit., “your hips.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p id="p745" data-pid="745"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:7</span></a> That is, from urination as a result of fear.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p id="p746" data-pid="746"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:10</span></a> That is, Jehovah’s sword.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p747" data-pid="747"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:13</span></a> Or “The scepter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p748" data-pid="748"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:19</span></a> Lit., “hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p749" data-pid="749"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:21</span></a> Lit., “the teraphim.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p750" data-pid="750"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:23</span></a> That is, the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p751" data-pid="751"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:24</span></a> Lit., “by the hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p752" data-pid="752"><a href="1001061130-split21.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 21:29</span></a> Lit., “the necks of the slain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
