<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_5.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="pos25973"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>On one occasion when the crowd was pressing in on him and listening to the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gen·nesʹa·ret.<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he saw two boats docked at the lakeside, but the fishermen had got out of them and were washing off their nets. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Going aboard one of the boats, which was Simon’s, he asked him to pull away a bit from land. Then he sat down, and he began teaching the crowds from the boat. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When he stopped speaking, he said to Simon: “Pull out to where it is deep, and let down your nets for a catch.” <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But in reply Simon said: “Instructor, we toiled all night and caught nothing, but at your word I will lower the nets.” <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Well, when they did this, they caught<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> a great number of fish. In fact, their nets began ripping apart. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So they motioned to their partners in the other boat to come and assist them, and they came and filled both boats, so that these began to sink. <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Seeing this, Simon Peter fell down at the knees of Jesus, saying: “Depart from me, Lord, because I am a sinful man.” <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For both he and those with him were overwhelmed with astonishment at the catch of fish they had taken, <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and the same was true of both James and John, Zebʹe·dee’s sons, who were partners with Simon. But Jesus said to Simon: “Stop being afraid. From now on you will be catching men<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> alive.” <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So they brought the boats back to land and abandoned everything and followed him.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="page1387" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1387" data-before-text="1387"></span><span id="pos27400"></span><span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> On another occasion while he was in one of the cities, look! there was a man full of leprosy! When he caught sight of Jesus, he fell facedown and begged him: “Lord, if you just want to, you can make me clean.” <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So stretching out his hand, he touched him, saying: “I want to! Be made clean.” Immediately the leprosy vanished from him. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then he gave the man orders to tell no one: “But go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, just as Moses directed, for a witness to them.” <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But the news about him just kept spreading, and large crowds would gather together to listen and to be cured of their sicknesses. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> However, he often went into the desolate areas to pray.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="pos28137"></span><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> On one of those days while he was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the Law who had come out of every village of Galʹi·lee and Ju·deʹa and from Jerusalem were sitting there; and Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> power was with him to do healing. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And look! men were carrying a paralyzed man on a stretcher, and they were trying to bring him in and place him before Jesus. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So not finding a way to bring him in because of the crowd, they climbed up to the roof, and they lowered him on the stretcher through the tiling, right among those in front of Jesus. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When he saw their faith, he said: “Man, your sins are forgiven.” <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then the scribes and the Pharisees started to reason, saying: “Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins except God alone?” <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But Jesus, discerning their reasoning, said in answer to them: “What are you reasoning in your hearts? <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’? <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But in order for you to know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins—” he said to the paralyzed man: “I say to you, Get up, pick up your stretcher, and go to your home.” <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At that he stood up before them, picked up what he had been lying on, and went to his home, glorifying God. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then one and all were seized with amazement, and they began to glorify God, and they became filled with awe, saying: “We have seen wonderful things today!”</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="pos29584"></span><span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Now after this, he went out and saw a tax collector named Leʹvi sitting at the tax office, and he said to him: “Be my follower.” <span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And leaving everything behind, he rose up and began to follow him. <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Leʹvi spread a big reception feast for him in his house, and there was a large crowd of tax collectors and others who were dining<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> with them. <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> At this the Pharisees and their scribes began murmuring to his disciples, saying: “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?” <span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said to them: “Those who are healthy do not need a physician, but those who are ill do. <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> I have come to call, not righteous people, but sinners to repentance.”</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="pos30288"></span><span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> They said to him: “John’s disciples fast frequently and offer supplications, and so do those of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink.” <span id="chapter5_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “You cannot make the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them, can you? <span id="chapter5_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> But days will come when the bridegroom will indeed be taken away from <span id="page1388" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1388" data-before-text="1388"></span>them; then they will fast in those days.”</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> He also gave an illustration to them: “Nobody cuts a patch from a new outer garment and sews it on an old garment. If he does, then the new patch tears away and the patch from the new garment does not match the old. <span id="chapter5_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Also, no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the wineskins and it will be spilled out and the wineskins will be ruined. <span id="chapter5_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But new wine must be put into new wineskins. <span id="chapter5_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> No one after drinking old wine wants new, for he says, ‘The old is nice.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061146-split5.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 5:1</span></a> That is, the Sea of Galilee.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061146-split5.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 5:6</span></a> Lit., “enclosed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061146-split5.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 5:10</span></a> Or “people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061146-split5.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 5:17</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061146-split5.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 5:29</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
