<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_9.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos32072"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>David then said: “Is there anyone still left of the house of Saul to whom I may show loyal love for the sake of Jonʹa·than?” <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now there was a servant of the house of Saul named Ziʹba. So they called him to David, and the king asked him: “Are you Ziʹba?” He replied: “I am your servant.” <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The king continued: “Is there anyone left of the house of Saul to whom I may extend God’s loyal love?” Ziʹba replied to the king: “There is still one son of Jonʹa·than; he is crippled<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> in both feet.” <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The king asked him: “Where is he?” Ziʹba replied to the king: “He is in the house of Maʹchir the son of Amʹmi·el at Lo-deʹbar.”</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> King David immediately sent for him and took him from the house of Maʹchir the son of Amʹmi·el at Lo-deʹbar. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When Me·phibʹo·sheth the son of Jonʹa·than the son of Saul came in to David, he at once fell facedown and prostrated himself. Then David said: “Me·phibʹo·sheth!” to which he replied: “Here is your servant.” <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> David said to him: “Do not be afraid, for I will certainly show loyal love to you for the sake of your father Jonʹa·than, and I will return to you all the land of Saul your grandfather, and you will always dine<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> at my table.”</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At that he prostrated himself and said: “What is your servant, that you have turned your attention<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> to a dead dog like me?” <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The king now sent for Ziʹba, Saul’s attendant, and said to him: “Everything that belonged to Saul and to all his house I give to the grandson of your master. <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You will cultivate the land for him—you and your sons and your servants—and you will gather its produce to provide food for those who belong to the grandson of your master to eat. But Me·phibʹo·sheth, the grandson of your master, will always dine at my table.”</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb">Now Ziʹba had 15 sons and 20 servants. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Ziʹba said to the king: “Your servant will do all that my lord the king commands his servant to do.” So Me·phibʹo·sheth ate at David’s<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> table like one of the sons of the king. <span id="page453" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="453" data-before-text="453"></span><span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now Me·phibʹo·sheth also had a young son named Miʹca; and all those who lived in Ziʹba’s house became servants of Me·phibʹo·sheth. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And Me·phibʹo·sheth lived in Jerusalem, for he always ate at the table of the king; and he was crippled in both feet.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061114-split9.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 9:3</span></a> Or “lame.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061114-split9.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 9:7</span></a> Lit., “eat bread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061114-split9.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 9:8</span></a> Lit., “face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061114-split9.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 9:11</span></a> Or possibly, “my.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
