<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_16.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos63705"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>After they departed from Eʹlim, the entire assembly of the Israelites eventually came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Eʹlim and Siʹnai, on the 15th day of the second month after their departure from the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the entire assembly of the Israelites began to murmur against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The Israelites kept saying to them: “If only we had died by Jehovah’s hand in the land of Egypt while we were sitting by the pots of meat, while we were eating bread to satisfaction. Now you have brought us out into this wilderness to put this whole congregation to death by famine.”</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos64337"></span><span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Here I am raining down bread for you from the heavens, and each of the people should go out to gather his amount day by day, so that I may put them to the test to see whether they will walk in my law or not. <span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But on the sixth day when they prepare what they have gathered, it is to be double the amount that they pick up on each of the other days.”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites: “In the evening you will certainly know that it is Jehovah who brought you out of the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> In the morning you will see Jehovah’s glory, for he has heard your murmurings against Jehovah. Who are we that you should murmur against us?” <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Moses continued: “When Jehovah gives you meat to eat in the evening and in the morning bread to satisfaction, you will see that Jehovah has heard your murmurings that you are murmuring against him. But who are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then Moses said to Aaron: “Tell the entire assembly of the Israelites, ‘Come near before Jehovah, for he has heard your murmurings.’” <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As soon as Aaron had spoken to the entire assembly of the Israelites, they turned and faced toward the wilderness, and look! Jehovah’s glory appeared in the cloud.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “I have heard the murmurings of the Israelites. Tell them, ‘At twilight<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be satisfied <span id="page135" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="135" data-before-text="135"></span>with bread, and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos65877"></span><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So that evening quail came and covered the camp, and in the morning a layer of dew was all around the camp. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When the layer of dew evaporated, there was a fine, flaky substance on the surface of the wilderness, as fine as frost on the ground. <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When the Israelites saw it, they began to say to one another, “What is it?” for they did not know what it was. Moses said to them: “It is the bread that Jehovah has given you for food. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah has commanded, ‘Each one should gather it according to how much he can eat. You are to take an omer measure<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> for each individual according to the number of the people<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> that each of you has in his tent.’” <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The Israelites began to do so; they gathered it, some gathering much and some gathering little. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When they would measure it by the omer, the one who had gathered much had no surplus and the one who had gathered little had no shortage. They each gathered it according to what they could eat.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then Moses said to them: “Nobody should leave any of it until the morning.” <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But they did not listen to Moses. When some men left some of it until the morning, it bred worms and stank, and Moses became indignant at them. <span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> They would pick it up morning by morning, each one according to what he could eat. When the sun got hot, it melted.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="pos67221"></span><span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> On the sixth day, they picked up twice as much bread, two omer measures for each person. So all the chieftains of the assembly came and reported it to Moses. <span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> At that he said to them: “It is what Jehovah has said. Tomorrow there will be a complete rest,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> a holy sabbath to Jehovah. Bake what you need to bake, and boil what you need to boil; then save whatever is left over and keep it until the morning.” <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So they saved it until the morning, just as Moses had commanded, and it did not stink nor were there maggots in it. <span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then Moses said: “Eat it today, because today is a sabbath to Jehovah. Today you will not find it on the ground. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> You will pick it up for six days, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will be none.” <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> However, some of the people did go out to pick it up on the seventh day, but they found nothing.</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So Jehovah said to Moses: “How long will you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? <span id="chapter16_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Take notice of the fact that Jehovah has given you the Sabbath. That is why he is giving you the bread for two days on the sixth day. Everyone must stay where he is; nobody is to leave his locality on the seventh day.” <span id="chapter16_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So the people observed the Sabbath<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> on the seventh day.</p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb"><span id="pos68477"></span><span id="chapter16_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The house of Israel named the bread “manna.”<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> It was white like coriander seed, and its taste was like that of flat cakes with honey. <span id="chapter16_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Then Moses said: “This is what Jehovah has commanded, ‘Fill an omer measure of it as something to be kept throughout your generations, so that they may see the bread that I gave you to eat in the wilderness when I was bringing you out of the land of Egypt.’” <span id="chapter16_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So Moses said to Aaron: “Take a jar <span id="page136" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="136" data-before-text="136"></span>and put in it an omer measure of manna and deposit it before Jehovah as something to be kept throughout your generations.” <span id="chapter16_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Just as Jehovah commanded Moses, Aaron placed it before the Testimony so that it might be preserved. <span id="chapter16_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The Israelites ate the manna for 40 years, until they came to a land that was inhabited. They ate the manna until they came to the frontier of the land of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter16_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Now an omer is a tenth of an eʹphah measure.<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p462" data-pid="462"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:12</span></a> Lit., “Between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p463" data-pid="463"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:16</span></a> About 2.2 L (2 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p464" data-pid="464"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:16</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p465" data-pid="465"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:23</span></a> Or “a sabbath observance.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p466" data-pid="466"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:30</span></a> Or “rested.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p467" data-pid="467"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:31</span></a> Probably from the Hebrew expression “What is it?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p468" data-pid="468"><a href="1001061106-split16.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 16:36</span></a> An ephah equaled 22 L (20 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
