<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_18.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="pos74323"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Some time later, David defeated the Phi·lisʹtines and subdued them and took Gath and its dependent<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> towns out of the hands of the Phi·lisʹtines. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he defeated Moʹab, and the Moʹab·ites became David’s servants and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> David defeated King Had·ad·eʹzer of Zoʹbah near Haʹmath as he was on his way to establish his authority at <span id="page591" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="591" data-before-text="591"></span>the Eu·phraʹtes River. <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> David captured 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers from him. Then David hamstrung all but 100 of the chariot horses. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When the Syrians of Damascus came to help King Had·ad·eʹzer of Zoʹbah, David struck down 22,000 of the Syrians. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> David then established garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold from the servants of Had·ad·eʹzer and brought them to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> From Tibʹhath and Cun, cities of Had·ad·eʹzer, David took a great quantity of copper. With it Solʹo·mon made the copper Sea, the pillars, and the copper utensils.</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When King Toʹu of Haʹmath heard that David had defeated the entire army of King Had·ad·eʹzer of Zoʹbah, <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> he immediately sent his son Ha·doʹram to King David to ask about his welfare and to congratulate him because he had fought and defeated Had·ad·eʹzer (for Had·ad·eʹzer had often fought against Toʹu), and he brought all sorts of articles of gold, silver, and copper. <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> King David sanctified these to Jehovah, along with the silver and the gold that he had carried off from all the nations: from Eʹdom and Moʹab, from the Amʹmon·ites, the Phi·lisʹtines, and the A·malʹek·ites.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> A·bishʹai the son of Ze·ruʹiah struck down 18,000 Eʹdom·ites in the Valley of Salt. <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He established garrisons in Eʹdom, and all the Eʹdom·ites became David’s servants. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="pos76257"></span><span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> David kept reigning over all Israel, and he was administering justice and righteousness for all his people. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah was over the army, Je·hoshʹa·phat the son of A·hiʹlud was recorder, <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Zaʹdok the son of A·hiʹtub and A·himʹe·lech the son of A·biʹa·thar were priests, and Shavʹsha was secretary. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da was over the Cherʹe·thites and the Pelʹe·thites. And David’s sons were first in position next to the king.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p371" data-pid="371"><a href="1001061117-split18.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:1</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p372" data-pid="372"><a href="1001061117-split18.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:6</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p373" data-pid="373"><a href="1001061117-split18.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:13</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
