<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_16.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="pos55160"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>I am introducing<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> to you Phoeʹbe, our sister, who is a minister of the congregation that is in Cenʹchre·ae, <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> so that you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the holy ones and give her whatever help she may need, for she herself also proved to be a defender of many, including me.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos55461"></span><span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Give my greetings to Prisʹca and Aqʹui·la, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> who have risked their own necks for me<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> and to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations give thanks. <span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Also greet the congregation that is in their house. Greet my beloved E·paeʹne·tus, who is a firstfruits of Asia for Christ. <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Greet An·dronʹi·cus and Juʹni·as, my relatives and fellow prisoners, who are men well-known to the apostles and who have been in union with Christ longer than I have.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Give my greetings to Am·pli·aʹtus, my beloved in the Lord. <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Greet Ur·baʹnus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Staʹchys. <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Greet A·pelʹles, the approved one in Christ. Greet those from the household of A·ris·tobʹu·lus. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Greet He·roʹdi·on, my relative. Greet those from the household of Nar·cisʹsus who are in the Lord. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Greet Try·phaeʹna and Try·phoʹsa, women who are working hard in the Lord. Greet Perʹsis, our beloved one, for she has worked hard in the Lord. <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Greet Ruʹfus, the chosen one in the Lord, and his mother and mine. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Greet A·synʹcri·tus, Phleʹgon, Herʹmes, Patʹro·bas, Herʹmas, and the brothers with them. <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Greet Phi·lolʹo·gus and Julia, Neʹreus and his sister, and O·lymʹpas, and all the holy ones with them. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the congregations of the Christ greet you.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos56883"></span><span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now I urge you, brothers, to keep your eye on those who create divisions and causes for stumbling contrary to the teaching that you have learned, and avoid them. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For men of that sort are slaves, not of our Lord Christ, but of their own appetites,<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> and by smooth talk and flattering speech they seduce the hearts of unsuspecting ones. <span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Your obedience has come to the notice of all, and so I rejoice over you. But I want you to be wise as to what is good, but innocent as to what is evil. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For his part, the God who gives peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. May the undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus be with you.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="page1525" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1525" data-before-text="1525"></span><span id="pos57538"></span><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, and so do Lucius, Jaʹson, and So·sipʹa·ter, my relatives.</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I, Terʹtius, who have done the writing of this letter, greet you in the Lord.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Gaʹius, host to me and to all the congregation, greets you. E·rasʹtus, the city treasurer,<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> greets you, and so does Quarʹtus, his brother. <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> ——</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos57891"></span><span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now to Him who can make you firm according to the good news I declare and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the sacred secret that has been kept in silence for long-lasting times <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> but has now been made manifest<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> and has been made known through the prophetic Scriptures among all the nations according to the command of the everlasting God to promote obedience by faith; <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> to God, who alone is wise, be the glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p193" data-pid="193"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:1</span></a> Or “I recommend.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p194" data-pid="194"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:4</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p195" data-pid="195"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:18</span></a> Or “bellies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p196" data-pid="196"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:23</span></a> Or “steward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p197" data-pid="197"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:24</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p198" data-pid="198"><a href="1001061149-split16.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 16:26</span></a> Or “revealed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
