<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_15.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos67346"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>“At the end of every seven years, you should grant a release. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is the nature of the release: Every creditor will release his neighbor from the debt he incurred. He should not demand payment from his neighbor or his brother, for it will be proclaimed a release to Jehovah. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You may demand payment from the foreigner, but you should release your claim on whatever your brother owes you. <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, no one among you should become poor, for Jehovah will surely bless you in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess as an <span id="page296" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="296" data-before-text="296"></span>inheritance, <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> but only if you strictly obey the voice of Jehovah your God and carefully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For Jehovah your God will bless you just as he has promised you, and you will lend<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> to many nations, but you will not need to borrow; and you will dominate many nations, but they will not dominate you.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos68261"></span><span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “If one of your brothers becomes poor among you in one of your cities of the land that Jehovah your God is giving you, do not harden your heart or be tightfisted toward your poor brother. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For you should generously open your hand to him and by all means lend<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> whatever he needs or is lacking. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Be careful not to harbor this evil idea in your heart, ‘The seventh year, the year of the release, has approached,’ and hold back your generosity toward your poor brother and give him nothing. If he calls out to Jehovah against you, it will be a sin on your part. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You should generously give to him, and you<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> should not give to him grudgingly, for this is why Jehovah your God will bless your every deed and undertaking. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For there will always be poor people in the land. That is why I am commanding you, ‘You should generously open up your hand to your afflicted and poor brother in your land.’</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="pos69178"></span><span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “If one of your brothers, a Hebrew man or woman, is sold to you and has served you for six years, then in the seventh year you should set him free. <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And if you should set him free, do not send him away empty-handed. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You should supply him generously with something from your flock, your threshing floor, and your press for oil and wine. Just as Jehovah your God has blessed you, you should give to him. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Remember that you became a slave in the land of Egypt and that Jehovah your God redeemed you. That is why I am commanding you to do this today.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos69750"></span><span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “But if he says to you, ‘I will not go out from your company!’ because he loves you and your household, since he has been happy while with you, <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> you should then take an awl and put it through his ear into the door, and he will become your slave for life. You should do the same with your slave girl. <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Do not consider it a hardship when you set him free and he leaves you, because his service to you for six years was worth twice as much as that of a hired worker, and Jehovah your God has blessed you in everything that was done.</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos70300"></span><span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “You should sanctify every firstborn male of your herd and your flock to Jehovah your God. You must not do any work with the firstborn of your herd<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> nor shear the firstborn of your flock. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You and your household should eat it before Jehovah your God year by year in the place that Jehovah will choose. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But if it has a defect—lameness, blindness, or any other serious defect—you must not sacrifice it to Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You should eat it inside your cities,<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> the unclean and clean person together, as though it were a gazelle or a deer. <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But you must not eat its blood; you should pour it out on the ground like water.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p493" data-pid="493"><a href="1001061109-split15.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 15:6</span></a> Or “lend on pledge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p494" data-pid="494"><a href="1001061109-split15.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 15:8</span></a> Or “lend on pledge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p495" data-pid="495"><a href="1001061109-split15.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 15:10</span></a> Lit., “your heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p496" data-pid="496"><a href="1001061109-split15.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 15:19</span></a> Lit., “bull.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p497" data-pid="497"><a href="1001061109-split15.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 15:22</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
