<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_19.xhtml">1 - 48</a></p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="pos108898"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>He then entered Jerʹi·cho and was passing through. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now a man named Zac·chaeʹus was there; he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich. <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Well, he was trying to see who this Jesus was, but he could not see because of the crowd, since he was short. <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> tree in order to see him, for he was about to pass that way. <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now when Jesus got to the place, he looked up and said to him: “Zac·chaeʹus, hurry and get down, for today I must stay in your house.” <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> With that he hurried down and joyfully welcomed him as a guest. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When they saw this, they were all muttering: “He went as a guest to the house of <span id="page1413" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1413" data-before-text="1413"></span>a man who is a sinner.” <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But Zac·chaeʹus stood up and said to the Lord: “Look! The half of my belongings, Lord, I am giving to the poor, and whatever I extorted<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> from anyone, I am restoring four times over.” <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At this Jesus said to him: “Today salvation has come to this house, because he too is a son of Abraham. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For the Son of man came to seek and to save what was lost.”</p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="pos109949"></span><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> While they were listening to these things, he told another illustration, because he was near Jerusalem and they thought that the Kingdom of God was going to appear instantly. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So he said: “A man of noble birth traveled to a distant land to secure kingly power for himself and to return. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Calling ten of his slaves, he gave them ten miʹnas<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> and told them, ‘Do business with these until I come.’ <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But his citizens hated him and sent out a body of ambassadors after him to say, ‘We do not want this man to become king over us.’</p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “When he eventually got back after having secured the kingly power,<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> he summoned the slaves to whom he had given the money,<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> in order to ascertain what they had gained by their business activity. <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So the first one came forward and said, ‘Lord, your miʹna gained ten miʹnas.’ <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He said to him, ‘Well done, good slave! Because in a very small matter you have proved yourself faithful, hold authority over ten cities.’ <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now the second came, saying, ‘Your miʹna, Lord, made five miʹnas.’ <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He said to this one as well, ‘You too be in charge of five cities.’ <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But another one came, saying, ‘Lord, here is your miʹna that I kept hidden away in a cloth. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You see, I was in fear of you, because you are a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.’ <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> He said to him, ‘By your own words I judge you, wicked slave. You knew, did you, that I am a harsh man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow? <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So why did you not put my money<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> in a bank? Then on my coming, I would have collected it with interest.’</p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “With that he said to those standing by, ‘Take the miʹna from him and give it to the one who has the ten miʹnas.’ <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten miʹnas!’— <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> ‘I say to you, to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moreover, bring these enemies of mine here who did not want me to become king over them and execute them in front of me.’”</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="pos112056"></span><span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> After he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And when he got near to Bethʹpha·ge and Bethʹa·ny at the mountain called Mount of Olives, he sent two of the disciples, <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> saying: “Go into the village that is within sight, and after you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here. <span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But if anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you must say, ‘The Lord needs it.’” <span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had said to them. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them: <span id="page1414" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1414" data-before-text="1414"></span>“Why are you untying the colt?” <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> They said: “The Lord needs it.” <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And they led it to Jesus, and they threw their outer garments on the colt and seated Jesus on it.</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> As he moved along, they were spreading their outer garments on the road. <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> As soon as he got near the road down the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and to praise God with a loud voice because of all the powerful works they had seen, <span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> saying: “Blessed is the one coming as the King in Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> name! Peace in heaven, and glory in the heights above!” <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> However, some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him: “Teacher, rebuke your disciples.” <span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But in reply he said: “I tell you, if these remained silent, the stones would cry out.”</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos113462"></span><span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And when he got nearby, he viewed the city and wept over it, <span id="chapter19_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> saying: “If you, even you, had discerned on this day the things having to do with peace—but now they have been hidden from your eyes. <span id="chapter19_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Because the days will come upon you when your enemies will build around you a fortification of pointed stakes and will encircle you and besiege<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> you from every side. <span id="chapter19_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> They will dash you and your children within you to the ground, and they will not leave a stone upon a stone in you, because you did not discern the time of your being inspected.”</p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="pos114034"></span><span id="chapter19_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Then he entered the temple and started to throw out those who were selling, <span id="chapter19_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> saying to them: “It is written, ‘My house will be a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a cave of robbers.”</p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> He continued teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal ones of the people were seeking to kill him; <span id="chapter19_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> but they did not find any way to do this, for the people one and all kept hanging on to him to hear him.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p401" data-pid="401"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:4</span></a> Or “fig-mulberry.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p402" data-pid="402"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:8</span></a> Or “extorted by false accusation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p403" data-pid="403"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:13</span></a> A Greek mina weighed 340 g (10.9 oz t) and was reckoned to be worth 100 drachmas. See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p404" data-pid="404"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:15</span></a> Or “the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p405" data-pid="405"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:15</span></a> Lit., “silver.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p406" data-pid="406"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:23</span></a> Lit., “my silver.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p407" data-pid="407"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:38</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p408" data-pid="408"><a href="1001061146-split19.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 19:43</span></a> Or “distress.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
