<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_5.xhtml">1 - 47</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos19734"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>After this there was a festival of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now in Jerusalem at the Sheep Gate is a pool called in Hebrew <em>Beth·zaʹtha,</em> with five colonnades. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Within these a multitude of the sick, blind, lame, and those with withered<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> limbs were lying <span id="page1432" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1432" data-before-text="1432"></span>down. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> —— <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But one man was there who had been sick for 38 years. <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Seeing this man lying there and being aware that he had already been sick for a long time, Jesus said to him: “Do you want to get well?” <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The sick man answered him: “Sir, I do not have anyone to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am on my way, another steps down ahead of me.” <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Get up! Pick up your mat<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> and walk.” <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And the man immediately got well, and he picked up his mat<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> and began to walk.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb">That day was the Sabbath. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the Jews began to say to the cured man: “It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to carry the mat.”<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But he answered them: “The same one who made me well said to me, ‘Pick up your mat<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> and walk.’” <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They asked him: “Who is the man who told you, ‘Pick it up and walk’?” <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But the healed man did not know who he was, for Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> After this Jesus found him in the temple and said to him: “See, you have become well. Do not sin anymore, so that something worse does not happen to you.” <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For this reason the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things during the Sabbath. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But he answered them: “My Father has kept working until now, and I keep working.” <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> This is why the Jews began seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath but he was also calling God his own Father, making himself equal to God.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos21629"></span><span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Therefore, in response Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to you, the Son cannot do a single thing of his own initiative, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever things that One does, these things the Son does also in like manner. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For the Father has affection for the Son and shows him all the things he himself does, and he will show him works greater than these, so that you may marvel. <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For just as the Father raises the dead up and makes them alive, so the Son also makes alive whomever he wants to. <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For the Father judges no one at all, but he has entrusted all the judging to the Son, <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> so that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes the One who sent me has everlasting life, and he does not come into judgment but has passed over from death to life.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos22593"></span><span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “Most truly I say to you, the hour is coming, and it is now, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who have paid attention will live. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For just as the Father has life in himself,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> so he has granted also to the Son to have life in himself. <span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And he has given him authority to do judging, because he is the Son of man. <span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Do not be amazed at this, for the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and come out, those who did good things to a resurrection of life, and those who practiced vile things to a resurrection of judgment. <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> I cannot do a single thing of my own initiative. <span id="page1433" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1433" data-before-text="1433"></span>Just as I hear, I judge, and my judgment is righteous because I seek, not my own will, but the will of him who sent me.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos23400"></span><span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “If I alone bear witness about myself, my witness is not true. <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the witness he bears about me is true. <span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> You have sent men to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. <span id="chapter5_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> However, I do not accept the witness from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. <span id="chapter5_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> That man was a burning and shining lamp, and for a short time you were willing to rejoice greatly in his light. <span id="chapter5_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But I have the witness greater than that of John, for the very works that my Father assigned me to accomplish, these works that I am doing, bear witness that the Father sent me. <span id="chapter5_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. You have neither heard his voice at any time nor seen his form, <span id="chapter5_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> and you do not have his word residing in you, because you do not believe the very one whom he sent.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> “You are searching the Scriptures because you think that you will have everlasting life by means of them; and these are the very ones<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> that bear witness about me. <span id="chapter5_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And yet you do not want to come to me so that you may have life. <span id="chapter5_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> I do not accept glory from men, <span id="chapter5_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> but I well know that you do not have the love of God in you. <span id="chapter5_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> I have come in the name of my Father, but you do not receive me. If someone else came in his own name, you would receive that one. <span id="chapter5_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> How can you believe, when you are accepting glory from one another and you are not seeking the glory that is from the only God? <span id="chapter5_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you, Moses, in whom you have put your hope. <span id="chapter5_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> In fact, if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. <span id="chapter5_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe what I say?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p171" data-pid="171"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:3</span></a> Or “paralyzed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p172" data-pid="172"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p173" data-pid="173"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:8</span></a> Or “bed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p174" data-pid="174"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:9</span></a> Or “bed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p175" data-pid="175"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:10</span></a> Or “bed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p176" data-pid="176"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:11</span></a> Or “bed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p177" data-pid="177"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:26</span></a> Or “has in himself the gift of life.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p178" data-pid="178"><a href="1001061147-split5.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 5:39</span></a> That is, the Scriptures.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
