<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_16.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos53256"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>Now concerning the collection for the holy ones, you may follow the directions I gave to the congregations of Ga·laʹti·a. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> On the first day of every week, each of you should set something aside according to his own means, so that collections will not take place when I arrive. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But when I get there, I will send the men you approve of in your letters to take your kind gift to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, if it seems advisable for me to go there also, they will go there with me.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos53744"></span><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But I will come to you when I have gone through Mac·e·doʹni·a, for I will be going through Mac·e·doʹni·a; <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and perhaps I will stay or even spend the winter with you, so that you may accompany me partway to where I may be going. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For I do not want to see you now just in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you, if Jehovah<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> permits. <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But I am remaining in Ephʹe·sus until the Festival of Pentecost, <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> because a large door that leads to activity has been opened to me, but there are many opposers.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos54269"></span><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now if Timothy arrives, make sure that he has nothing to fear while among you, for he is performing the work of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> just as I am. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Therefore, let no one look down on him. Send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me, for I am waiting for him together with the brothers.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now concerning A·polʹlos our brother, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers. It was not his intention to come now, but he will come when he has the opportunity.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos54756"></span><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Stay awake, stand firm in the faith, carry on in a manly way,<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> grow mighty. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Let everything you do be done with love.</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now I urge you, brothers: You know that the household of Stephʹa·nas is the firstfruits of A·chaʹia and that they devoted themselves to ministering to the holy ones. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> May you also keep submitting yourselves to people like that and to all those cooperating and working hard. <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But I rejoice over the presence of Stephʹa·nas and For·tu·naʹtus and A·chaʹi·cus, because they have made up for your not being here. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, give recognition to men of that sort.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The congregations of Asia send you their greetings. Aqʹui·la and Prisʹca together with the congregation that is in their house greet you heartily in the Lord. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> If anyone has no affection for the Lord, let him be accursed. O our Lord, come! <span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> May the undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus be with you. <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> May my love be with all of you in union with Christ Jesus.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p216" data-pid="216"><a href="1001061150-split16.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 16:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p217" data-pid="217"><a href="1001061150-split16.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 16:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p218" data-pid="218"><a href="1001061150-split16.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 16:13</span></a> Or “be courageous.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
