<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061142"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_1.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1287" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1287" data-before-text="1287"></span><strong>ZECHARIAH</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos55"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>In the eighth month in the second year of Da·riʹus, the word of Jehovah came to the prophet Zech·a·riʹah<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> son of Ber·e·chiʹah son of Idʹdo, saying: <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Jehovah grew greatly indignant at your fathers.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos263"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “‘Return to me,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘and I will return to you,’ says Jehovah of armies.”’</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “‘Do not become like your fathers, to whom the former prophets proclaimed: “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Turn away,<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> please, from your evil ways and your evil deeds.’”’</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb">“‘But they did not listen, and they paid no attention to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “‘Where are your fathers now? And did the prophets live forever? <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, my words and my decrees that I commanded my servants, the prophets, caught up with your fathers, did they not?’ So they returned to me and said: ‘Jehovah of armies has dealt with us according to our ways and our deeds, just as he had determined to do.’”</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos1021"></span><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> On the 24th day of the 11th month, that is, the month of Sheʹbat,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> in the second year of Da·riʹus, the word of Jehovah came to the prophet Zech·a·riʹah son of Ber·e·chiʹah son of Idʹdo, saying: <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “I saw a vision in the night. There was a man riding on a red horse, and he stood still among the myrtle trees in the ravine; and behind him there were red, reddish-brown, and white horses.”</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So I said: “Who are these, my lord?”</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb">The angel who was speaking with me replied: “I will show you who these are.”</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then the man who was standing still among the myrtle trees said: “These are the ones whom Jehovah has sent out to walk about in the earth.” <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And they said to the angel of Jehovah who was standing among the myrtle trees: “We have walked about in the earth, and look! the whole earth is quiet and undisturbed.”</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So the angel of Jehovah said: “O Jehovah of armies, how long will you withhold your mercy from Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, with whom you have been indignant these 70 years?”</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jehovah answered the angel who was speaking with me, with kind and comforting words. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then the angel who was speaking with me told me: “Call out, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “I am zealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great zeal. <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> With great indignation I am indignant with the nations that are at ease, because I felt indignant to a small extent, but they added to the calamity.”’</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what Jehovah says: ‘“I will return to Jerusalem with mercy, and my own house will be built in her,” declares Jehovah of armies, “and a measuring line will be stretched out over Jerusalem.”’</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos2684"></span><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “Call out once more and say, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “My cities will again overflow with goodness; and Jehovah will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.”’”</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos2872"></span><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then I looked up and saw four horns. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So I asked the angel who was speaking with me: “What are these?” He replied: “These are the horns that dispersed Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.”</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Jehovah then showed me four craftsmen. <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I asked: “What are these coming to do?”</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="page1288" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1288" data-before-text="1288"></span>He said: “These are the horns that dispersed Judah to such an extent that no one was able to raise his head. These others will come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations that lifted up their horns against the land of Judah, in order to disperse her.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061142.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 1:1</span></a> Meaning “Jehovah Has Remembered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061142.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 1:4</span></a> Or “Return.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p160" data-pid="160"><a href="1001061142.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 1:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
