<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 30</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">30</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_30.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sb"><span id="pos113309"></span><span id="chapter30"></span><span id="chapter30_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>30</strong> </span>When Rachel saw that she had borne no children to Jacob, she became jealous of her sister and began to say to Jacob: “Give me children or else I will die.” <span id="chapter30_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At this Jacob’s anger flared up against Rachel, and he said: “Am I in the place of God, who has prevented you from having children?”<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So she said: “Here is my slave girl Bilʹhah. Have relations with her in order that she may bear children for me<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a> and that through her, I too may have children.” <span id="chapter30_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> With that she gave him her servant Bilʹhah as a wife, and Jacob had relations with her. <span id="chapter30_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Bilʹhah became pregnant and in time bore Jacob a son. <span id="chapter30_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Rachel said: “God has acted as my judge and has also listened to my voice, so that he gave me a son.” That is why she named him Dan.<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Bilʹhah, Rachel’s servant, became pregnant once more and in time bore Jacob a second son. <span id="chapter30_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then Rachel said: “With strenuous wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister. I have also come off the winner!” So she named him Naphʹta·li.<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a></p>
<p id="p248" data-pid="248" class="p248 sb"><span id="pos114309"></span><span id="chapter30_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When Leʹah saw that she had stopped having children, she took her servant Zilʹpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife. <span id="chapter30_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And Leʹah’s servant Zilʹpah bore a son to Jacob. <span id="chapter30_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Leʹah said: “With good fortune!” So she named him Gad.<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> After that Zilʹpah, Leʹah’s servant, bore a second son to Jacob. <span id="chapter30_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Leʹah said: “With my happiness! For the daughters will certainly pronounce me happy.” So she named him Ashʹer.<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a></p>
<p id="p249" data-pid="249" class="p249 sb"><span id="pos114752"></span><span id="chapter30_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now Reuʹben was walking in the days of the wheat harvest, and he found mandrakes in the field. So he brought them to his mother Leʹah. Then Rachel said to Leʹah: “Give me, please, some of your son’s mandrakes.” <span id="chapter30_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At this she said to her: “Is it a small matter that you took my husband? Would you now take my son’s mandrakes also?” So Rachel said: “Very well. He will lie down with you tonight in exchange for your son’s mandrakes.”</p>
<p id="p250" data-pid="250" class="p250 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When Jacob was coming from the field in the evening, Leʹah went out to meet him and said: “It is with me you are going to have relations, because I have hired you outright with my son’s mandrakes.” So he lay down with her that night. <span id="chapter30_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And God heard and answered Leʹah, and she became pregnant and in time bore to Jacob a fifth son. <span id="chapter30_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Leʹah said: “God has given me my wages<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> because I have given my servant to my husband.” So she named him Isʹsa·char.<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And Leʹah became pregnant once more and in time bore a sixth son to Jacob. <span id="chapter30_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then Leʹah said: “God has endowed me, yes, me, with a good endowment. At last, my husband will tolerate me, for I have borne him six sons.” So she named him Zebʹu·lun.<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Afterward she bore a daughter and named her Diʹnah.</p>
<p id="p251" data-pid="251" class="p251 sb"><span id="pos115993"></span><span id="chapter30_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Finally God remembered Rachel, and God heard and <span id="page81" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="81" data-before-text="81"></span>answered her by enabling her to become pregnant.<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> <span id="chapter30_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. Then she said: “God has taken away my reproach!” <span id="chapter30_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So she named him Joseph,<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> saying: “Jehovah is adding another son to me.”</p>
<p id="p252" data-pid="252" class="p252 sb"><span id="pos116290"></span><span id="chapter30_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> After Rachel had given birth to Joseph, Jacob immediately said to Laʹban: “Send me away so that I may go to my place and to my land. <span id="chapter30_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Give over my wives and my children, for whom I have served with you, that I may go, for you well know how I have served you.” <span id="chapter30_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then Laʹban said to him: “If I have found favor in your eyes,—I have understood by the omens<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> that Jehovah is blessing me because of you.” <span id="chapter30_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And he added: “Stipulate your wages to me, and I will give them.” <span id="chapter30_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Jacob said to him: “You know how I have served you and how your herd has fared with me; <span id="chapter30_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> you had little before my coming, but your herd has increased and multiplied, and Jehovah has blessed you since I arrived. So when will I do something for my own house?”</p>
<p id="p253" data-pid="253" class="p253 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then he said: “What should I give you?” And Jacob said: “You will give me nothing whatsoever! If you will do this one thing for me, I will resume shepherding your flock and guarding it. <span id="chapter30_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> I will pass through your whole flock today. You set aside from there every sheep speckled and with color patches and every dark-brown sheep among the young rams and any color-patched and speckled one among the she-goats. From now on, these must become my wages. <span id="chapter30_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And my righteousness<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> must speak for me on a future day when you come to look over my wages; every one that is not speckled and color-patched among the she-goats and dark brown among the young rams will be considered stolen if it is with me.”</p>
<p id="p254" data-pid="254" class="p254 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> To this Laʹban said: “That is fine! Let it be according to your word.” <span id="chapter30_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then on that day, he set aside the he-goats striped and color-patched and all the she-goats speckled and color-patched, every one in which there was any white and every one dark brown among the young rams, and gave them into the care of his sons. <span id="chapter30_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> After that he set a distance of three days’ journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob was shepherding the flocks of Laʹban that remained over.</p>
<p id="p255" data-pid="255" class="p255 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Jacob then took freshly cut staffs of the storax, almond, and plane trees, and he peeled white spots in them by exposing the white wood of the staffs. <span id="chapter30_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then he placed the staffs that he had peeled in front of the flock, in the gutters, in the drinking troughs, where the flocks would come to drink, that they might get into heat in front of them when they came to drink.</p>
<p id="p256" data-pid="256" class="p256 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So the flocks would get into heat in front of the staffs, and the flocks would produce striped, speckled, and color-patched offspring. <span id="chapter30_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Then Jacob separated the young rams and turned the flocks to face the striped ones and all the dark-brown ones among the flocks of Laʹban. Then he separated his own flocks and did not mix them with Laʹban’s flocks. <span id="chapter30_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And whenever the robust animals would get into heat, Jacob would place the staffs in <span id="page82" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="82" data-before-text="82"></span>the gutters before the eyes of the flocks, that they might get into heat by the staffs. <span id="chapter30_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> But when the animals were weak, he would not place the staffs there. So the weak ones always came to be Laʹban’s, but the robust ones became Jacob’s.</p>
<p id="p257" data-pid="257" class="p257 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And the man grew very prosperous, and he acquired great flocks and male and female servants and camels and donkeys.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p id="p688" data-pid="688"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:2</span></a> Or “has withheld the fruit of the womb from you?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p689" data-pid="689"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:3</span></a> Lit., “give birth upon my knees.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p690" data-pid="690"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:6</span></a> Meaning “Judge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p691" data-pid="691"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:8</span></a> Meaning “My Wrestlings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p692" data-pid="692"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:11</span></a> Meaning “Good Fortune.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p693" data-pid="693"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:13</span></a> Meaning “Happy; Happiness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p694" data-pid="694"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:18</span></a> Or “a hireling’s wages.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p695" data-pid="695"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:18</span></a> Meaning “He Is Wages.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p696" data-pid="696"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:20</span></a> Meaning “Toleration.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p697" data-pid="697"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:22</span></a> Lit., “and God listened to her and opened her womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p698" data-pid="698"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:24</span></a> A shortened form of Josiphiah, which means “May Jah Add (Increase).”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p699" data-pid="699"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:27</span></a> Or “from the evidence.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p id="p700" data-pid="700"><a href="1001061105-split30.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 30:33</span></a> Or “honesty.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
