<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 John 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061166"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav62.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav62_4.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos9236"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Beloved ones, do not believe every inspired statement,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> but test the inspired statements<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> to see whether they originate with God, for many false prophets have gone out into the world.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is how you know that the inspired statement is from God: Every inspired statement that acknowledges Jesus Christ as having come in the flesh originates with God. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But every inspired statement that does not acknowledge Jesus does not originate with God. Furthermore, this is the antichrist’s inspired statement that you have heard was coming, and now it is already in the world.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You originate with God, little children, and you have conquered them, because the one who is in union with you is greater than the one who is in union with the world. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They originate with the world; that is why they speak what originates with the world and the world listens to them. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> We originate with God. Whoever comes to know God listens to us; whoever does not originate with God does not listen to us. By this we distinguish the inspired statement of truth from the inspired statement of error.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos10338"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Beloved ones, let us continue loving one another, because love is from God, and everyone who loves has been born from God and knows God. <span id="pos10481"></span><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Whoever does not love has not come to know God, because God is love. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> By this the love of God was revealed in our case, that God sent his only-begotten Son into the world so that we might gain life through him. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> for our sins.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Beloved ones, if this is how God loved us, then we are also under obligation to love one another. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> No one has seen God at any time. If we continue loving one another, God remains in us and his love is made perfect in us. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> By this we know that we are remaining in union with him and he in union with us, <span id="page1634" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1634" data-before-text="1634"></span>because he has given his spirit to us. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> In addition, we ourselves have seen and are bearing witness that the Father has sent his Son as savior of the world. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Whoever acknowledges that Jesus is God’s Son, God remains in union with such one and he in union with God. <span id="pos11458"></span><span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And we have come to know and believe the love that God has for us.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb">God is love, and the one who remains in love remains in union with God and God remains in union with him. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In this way love has been made perfect in us, so that we may have freeness of speech<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> in the day of judgment, because just as that one is, so are we ourselves in this world. <span id="pos11823"></span><span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> fear out, because fear restrains us. Indeed, the one who is fearful has not been made perfect in love. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> We love, because he first loved us.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> If anyone says, “I love God,” and yet is hating his brother, he is a liar. For the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And we have this commandment from him, that whoever loves God must also love his brother.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p45" data-pid="45"><a href="1001061166-split4.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 John 4:1</span></a> Lit., “every spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p46" data-pid="46"><a href="1001061166-split4.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 John 4:1</span></a> Lit., “the spirits.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p47" data-pid="47"><a href="1001061166-split4.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 John 4:10</span></a> Or “an atoning sacrifice; a means of appeasement.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p48" data-pid="48"><a href="1001061166-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 John 4:17</span></a> Or “have confidence.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p49" data-pid="49"><a href="1001061166-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 John 4:18</span></a> Or “drives.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
