<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_11.xhtml">1 - 47</a></p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="pos45320"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>In time all the Israelites gathered to David at Hebʹron and said: “Look! We are your own bone and flesh.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In times past while Saul was king, you were the one who was leading Israel on its campaigns.<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> And Jehovah your God said to you: ‘You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become leader over my people Israel.’” <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebʹron, and David made a covenant with them in Hebʹron before Jehovah. Then they anointed David as king over Israel, according to Jehovah’s word through Samuel.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos45871"></span><span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Later David and all Israel set out for Jerusalem, that is, Jeʹbus, where the Jebʹu·sites were inhabiting the land. <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The inhabitants of Jeʹbus taunted David: “You will never come in here!” However, David captured the stronghold of Zion, which is now the City of David. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So David said: “Whoever is the first to strike the Jebʹu·sites will become chief<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> and prince.” And Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah went up first, and he became the chief. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then David took up residence in the stronghold. That is why they called it the City of David. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He began to build up the city all around, from the Mound<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> to the areas around it, and Joʹab restored the rest of the city. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Thus David became greater and greater, and Jehovah of armies was with him.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos46625"></span><span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now these are the heads of David’s mighty warriors, who gave him strong support in his kingship, together with all Israel, to make him king according to Jehovah’s word concerning Israel. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> This is the list of David’s mighty warriors: Ja·shoʹbe·am the son of a Hachʹmon·ite, the head of the three. He brandished his spear over 300 slain at one time. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Next to him was El·e·aʹzar the son of Doʹdo the A·hoʹhite. He was among the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He was with David at Pas-damʹmim, where the Phi·lisʹtines had gathered together for war. Now there was a plot of land full of barley, and the people had fled because of the Phi·lisʹtines. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But he took his stand in the middle of the field and defended it and kept striking down the Phi·lisʹtines, so that Jehovah brought about a great victory.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a></p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Three of the 30 headmen went down to the rock, to David at the cave of A·dulʹlam, while a Phi·lisʹtine army was camped in the Valley<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> of Rephʹa·im. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> David was then in the stronghold, and a garrison of the Phi·lisʹtines was in Bethʹle·hem. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then David expressed <span id="page582" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="582" data-before-text="582"></span>his longing: “If only I could have a drink of the water from the cistern by the gate of Bethʹle·hem!” <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that the three forced their way into the camp of the Phi·lisʹtines and drew water from the cistern by the gate of Bethʹle·hem and brought it to David; but David refused to drink it and poured it out to Jehovah. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He said: “It is unthinkable on my part from the standpoint of my God to do this! Should I drink the blood of these men who risked their lives?<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> For it was at the risk of their lives<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> that they brought it.” So he refused to drink it. These are the things that his three mighty warriors did.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> A·bishʹai the brother of Joʹab became head of another three; he brandished his spear over 300 slain, and he had a reputation like the three. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Of the other three, he was more distinguished than two of them, and he was their chief; yet he did not attain to the rank of the first three.</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da was a courageous man<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> who performed many exploits in Kabʹze·el. He struck down the two sons of Arʹi·el of Moʹab, and he descended into a waterpit on a snowy day and killed a lion. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He also struck down an Egyptian man of extraordinary size—five cubits<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> tall. Though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like the beam of loom workers, he went against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> These things Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da did, and he had a reputation like that of the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Although he was distinguished even more than the thirty, he did not attain to the rank of the three. However, David appointed him over his own bodyguard.</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The mighty warriors of the military forces were Asʹa·hel the brother of Joʹab, El·haʹnan the son of Doʹdo of Bethʹle·hem, <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Shamʹmoth the Haʹro·rite, Heʹlez the Pelʹo·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Iʹra the son of Ikʹkesh the Te·koʹite, Abi-eʹzer the Anʹa·thoth·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Sibʹbe·cai the Huʹshath·ite, Iʹlai the A·hoʹhite, <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Maʹha·rai the Ne·tophʹa·thite, Heʹled the son of Baʹa·nah the Ne·tophʹa·thite, <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Iʹthai the son of Riʹbai of Gibʹe·ah of the Benʹja·min·ites, Be·naiʹah the Pirʹa·thon·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Huʹrai of the wadis<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> of Gaʹash, A·biʹel the Arʹbath·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Azʹma·veth the Ba·haʹrum·ite, E·liʹah·ba the Sha·alʹbo·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> the sons of Haʹshem the Giʹzo·nite, Jonʹa·than the son of Shaʹgee the Harʹa·rite, <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> A·hiʹam the son of Saʹcar the Harʹa·rite, E·liʹphal the son of Ur, <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Heʹpher the Me·cheʹrath·ite, A·hiʹjah the Pelʹo·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Hezʹro the Carʹmel·ite, Naʹa·rai the son of Ezʹbai, <span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibʹhar the son of Hagʹri, <span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Zeʹlek the Amʹmon·ite, Naʹha·rai the Be·rothʹite, the armor-bearer of Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah; <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Iʹra the Ithʹrite, Gaʹreb the Ithʹrite, <span id="chapter11_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> U·riʹah the Hitʹtite, Zaʹbad the son of Ahʹlai, <span id="chapter11_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Adʹi·na the son of Shiʹza the Reuʹben·ite, a head of the Reuʹben·ites, and 30 with him; <span id="chapter11_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Haʹnan the son of Maʹa·cah, Joshʹa·phat the Mithʹnite, <span id="chapter11_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Uz·ziʹa the Ashʹte·rath·ite, Shaʹma and Je·iʹel, the sons of Hoʹtham the A·roʹer·ite; <span id="chapter11_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Je·diʹa·el the son of Shimʹri, and Joʹha his brother the Tiʹzite; <span id="chapter11_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Eʹli·el the Maʹha·vite, Jerʹi·bai and Josh·a·viʹah the sons of Elʹna·am, and Ithʹmah the Moʹab·ite; <span id="page583" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="583" data-before-text="583"></span><span id="chapter11_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Eʹli·el, Oʹbed, and Ja·a·siʹel the Me·zoʹba·ite.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:1</span></a> Or “your blood relatives.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:2</span></a> Lit., “the one bringing out and the one bringing in Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:6</span></a> Lit., “head.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:8</span></a> Or “Millo.” A Hebrew term meaning “fill.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:14</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:15</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:19</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:19</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:22</span></a> Lit., “the son of a man of valor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:23</span></a> His height was about 2.23 m (7.3 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061117-split11.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
