<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_22.xhtml">1 - 41</a></p>
<p id="p229" data-pid="229" class="p229 sb"><span id="pos109460"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Then the Israelites departed and camped on the desert plains of Moʹab across the Jordan from Jerʹi·cho. <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now Baʹlak the son of Zipʹpor saw all that Israel had done to the Amʹor·ites, <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and Moʹab became very frightened of the people, because they were so many; indeed, Moʹab felt sick with fear because of the Israelites. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Moʹab said to the elders of Midʹi·an: “Now this congregation will devour all our surroundings, just as a bull devours the grass in the field.”</p>
<p id="p230" data-pid="230" class="p230 sb">Baʹlak the son of Zipʹpor was king of Moʹab at that time. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He sent messengers to Baʹlaam the son of Beʹor at Peʹthor, which is by the River<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> in his native land. He summoned him, saying: “Look! A people has come out of Egypt. Look! They have covered the face<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> of the earth,<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> and they are dwelling right in front of me. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now, please, come and curse this people for me, for they are mightier than I am. Perhaps I can defeat them and drive them out of the land, for I well know that the one whom you bless is blessed and the one whom you curse is cursed.”</p>
<p id="p231" data-pid="231" class="p231 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So the elders of Moʹab and the elders of Midʹi·an traveled with the fee for divination in their hands and went to Baʹlaam and conveyed to him Baʹlak’s message. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At that he said to them: “Spend the night here, and I will bring back to you whatever word Jehovah speaks to me.” So the princes of Moʹab stayed with Baʹlaam.</p>
<p id="p232" data-pid="232" class="p232 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then God came to Baʹlaam and said: “Who are these men with you?” <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Baʹlaam said to the true God: “Baʹlak the son of Zipʹpor, the king of Moʹab, has sent me a message, saying, <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> ‘Look! The people who are coming out of Egypt are covering the face<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> of the earth.<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> Now come and put a curse on them for me. Perhaps I may be able to fight against them and drive them out.’” <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But God said to Baʹlaam: “You must not go with them. You must not curse the people, for they are blessed.”</p>
<p id="p233" data-pid="233" class="p233 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Baʹlaam got up in the morning and said to the princes of Baʹlak: “Go to your land, for Jehovah has refused to let me go with you.” <span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So the princes of Moʹab departed and returned to Baʹlak and said: “Baʹlaam has refused to come with us.”</p>
<p id="p234" data-pid="234" class="p234 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> However, Baʹlak again sent princes, more numerous and more distinguished than the first group. <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They came to Baʹlaam and said to him: “This is what Baʹlak the son of Zipʹpor has said, ‘Please do not let anything hinder you from coming to me, <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> for I will honor you greatly and I will do anything you tell me to do. So come, please, and curse this people for me.’” <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But Baʹlaam answered the servants of Baʹlak: “If Baʹlak were to give me his own house full of silver and gold, I could not do anything beyond the order of Jehovah my God, whether small or great. <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But please stay here tonight also, so that I may learn what else Jehovah will tell me.”</p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then God came to Baʹlaam by night and said to him: “If these men have come to summon you, go along with them. But you may speak only the words that I tell you to say.” <span id="page251" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="251" data-before-text="251"></span><span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So Baʹlaam got up in the morning and saddled his donkey<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> and went with the princes of Moʹab.</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sb"><span id="pos112542"></span><span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But God’s anger blazed because he was going, and Jehovah’s angel stationed himself in the road to resist him. Now Baʹlaam was riding on his donkey, and two of his attendants were with him. <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And when the donkey saw Jehovah’s angel standing in the road with a drawn sword in his hand, it tried to turn off the road into the field. But Baʹlaam began to beat the donkey to make it return to the road. <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then Jehovah’s angel stood in a narrow path between two vineyards, with stone walls on both sides. <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When the donkey saw Jehovah’s angel, it began to squeeze itself against the wall and it jammed Baʹlaam’s foot against the wall, and Baʹlaam began beating it again.</p>
<p id="p237" data-pid="237" class="p237 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jehovah’s angel now passed by again and stood in a narrow place where there was no way to turn to the right or to the left. <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When the donkey saw Jehovah’s angel, it lay down under Baʹlaam, so Baʹlaam became furious and kept beating the donkey with his staff. <span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Finally Jehovah caused the donkey to speak,<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> and it said to Baʹlaam: “What have I done to you to make you beat me these three times?” <span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Baʹlaam replied to the donkey: “It is because you have made a fool of me. If only I had a sword in my hand, I would kill you!” <span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then the donkey said to Baʹlaam: “Am I not your donkey that you have ridden on all your life until today? Have I ever treated you this way before?” He replied: “No!” <span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then Jehovah uncovered Baʹlaam’s eyes, and he saw Jehovah’s angel standing in the road with a drawn sword in his hand. At once he bowed low and prostrated himself on his face.</p>
<p id="p238" data-pid="238" class="p238 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Then Jehovah’s angel said to him: “Why have you beaten your donkey these three times? Look! I myself came out to offer resistance, because your way is in defiance of my will. <span id="chapter22_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The donkey saw me and tried to turn away from me these three times. Supposing it had not turned away from me! By now I would have killed you and let the donkey live.” <span id="chapter22_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Baʹlaam said to Jehovah’s angel: “I have sinned, because I did not know that it was you standing in the road to meet me. And now if it is bad in your eyes, I will go back.” <span id="chapter22_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> But Jehovah’s angel said to Baʹlaam: “Go with the men, but you may speak only the words that I tell you.” So Baʹlaam continued going with the princes of Baʹlak.</p>
<p id="p239" data-pid="239" class="p239 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> When Baʹlak heard that Baʹlaam had come, he immediately went out to meet him at the city of Moʹab, which is on the bank of the Arʹnon on the border of the territory. <span id="chapter22_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Baʹlak said to Baʹlaam: “Did I not send for you? Why did you not come to me? Did you think I am not able to honor you greatly?” <span id="chapter22_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Baʹlaam replied to Baʹlak: “Well, I have come to you now. But will I be allowed to say anything? I can only speak words that God puts in my mouth.”</p>
<p id="p240" data-pid="240" class="p240 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So Baʹlaam went with Baʹlak, and they came to Kirʹi·ath-huʹzoth. <span id="chapter22_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Baʹlak sacrificed cattle and sheep and sent some to Baʹlaam and the princes who were with him. <span id="chapter22_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> In the morning Baʹlak took Baʹlaam and brought him up to Baʹmoth-baʹal; from there he could see all the people.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p570" data-pid="570"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:5</span></a> Evidently, the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p571" data-pid="571"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:5</span></a> Lit., “eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p572" data-pid="572"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:5</span></a> Or “land.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p573" data-pid="573"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:11</span></a> Lit., “eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p574" data-pid="574"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:11</span></a> Or “land.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p575" data-pid="575"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:21</span></a> Lit., “female donkey.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p576" data-pid="576"><a href="1001061108-split22.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 22:28</span></a> Lit., “opened the mouth of the female donkey.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
