<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Philippians 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061154"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Philippians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav50.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav50_4.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos10983"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Consequently, my brothers whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm in this way in the Lord, my beloved ones.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I urge Eu·oʹdi·a and I urge Synʹty·che to be of the same mind in the Lord. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Yes, I request you also, as a true fellow worker,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> to keep assisting these women who have striven<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> side by side with me for the good news, along with Clement as well as the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Always rejoice in the Lord. Again I will say, Rejoice! <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Let your reasonableness become known to all men. The Lord is near. <span id="pos11564"></span><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God; <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> by means of Christ Jesus.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern, whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chaste,<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> whatever things are lovable, whatever things are well-spoken-of, whatever things are virtuous, and whatever things are praiseworthy, continue considering<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> these things. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The things that you learned as well as accepted and heard and saw in connection with me, practice these, and the God of peace will be with you.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos12315"></span><span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I rejoice greatly in the Lord that now at last you have renewed your concern for me. Though you were concerned about me, you lacked opportunity to show it. <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Not that I am saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be self-sufficient<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> regardless of my circumstances. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> I know how to be low on provisions and how to have an abundance. In everything and in all circumstances I have learned the secret of both how to be full and how to hunger, <span id="page1575" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1575" data-before-text="1575"></span>both how to have an abundance and how to do without. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For all things I have the strength through the one who gives me power.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Nevertheless, you did well to share with me in my tribulation. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In fact, you Phi·lipʹpi·ans also know that after you first learned the good news, when I departed from Mac·e·doʹni·a, not a congregation shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except you alone; <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for while I was in Thes·sa·lo·niʹca, you sent something to me for my need not just once but twice. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Not that I am looking for a gift, but I want the fruitage that brings more credit to your account. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, I have everything I need and even more. I am fully supplied, now that I have received from E·paph·ro·diʹtus what you sent, a sweet fragrance, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing to God. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In turn my God will fully supply all your need according to his riches in glory by means of Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos13812"></span><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Give my greetings to every holy one in union with Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me send you their greetings. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> All the holy ones, but especially those of the household of Caesar, send you their greetings.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ be with the spirit you show.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p46" data-pid="46"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:3</span></a> Lit., “genuine yokefellow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p47" data-pid="47"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:3</span></a> Or “who have struggled hard.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p48" data-pid="48"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:7</span></a> Or “your minds; your thoughts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p49" data-pid="49"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:8</span></a> Or “pure.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p50" data-pid="50"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:8</span></a> Or “thinking about; meditating on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p51" data-pid="51"><a href="1001061154-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 4:11</span></a> Or “content.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
