<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_9.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos32113"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>When all the kings who were on the west side of the Jordan heard what had happened, those in the mountainous region, in the She·pheʹlah, along the entire coast of the Great Sea,<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> and in front of Lebʹa·non—the Hitʹtites, the Amʹor·ites, the Caʹnaan·ites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites— <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> they formed an alliance to fight against Joshua and Israel.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The inhabitants of Gibʹe·on also heard what Joshua had done to Jerʹi·cho and Aʹi. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So they acted shrewdly and put provisions into worn-out sacks on their donkeys, along with worn-out wineskins that had burst and had been mended; <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> they also had worn-out and patched sandals on their feet, and they were wearing worn-out garments. All the bread of their provisions was dry and crumbly. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then they went to Joshua at the camp at Gilʹgal and said to him and the men of Israel: “We have come from a distant land. Now make a covenant with us.” <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But the men of Israel said to the Hiʹvites: “Perhaps you are living near us. So how can we make a covenant with you?” <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They replied to Joshua: “We are your servants.”<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a></p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="page336" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="336" data-before-text="336"></span>Then Joshua said to them: “Who are you, and where do you come from?” <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At this they said to him: “Your servants have come from a very distant land out of regard for the name of Jehovah your God, because we have heard about his fame and about all he did in Egypt <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and about all he did to the two kings of the Amʹor·ites who were on the other side<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> of the Jordan, King Siʹhon of Heshʹbon and King Og of Baʹshan, who was in Ashʹta·roth. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So our elders and all the inhabitants of our land told us, ‘Take provisions with you for the journey and go to meet them. Tell them: “We will be your servants; now make a covenant with us.”’ <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> This bread that we took as our provisions was still hot on the day we left our houses to come here to you. Now you can see it is dry and crumbly. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And these wineskins were new when we filled them, but now they have burst. And our garments and sandals have worn out because of the great length of the journey.”</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> At that the men took<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> some of their provisions, but they did not inquire of Jehovah. <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them to let them live, and that is what the chieftains of the assembly swore to them in an oath.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="pos34450"></span><span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At the end of three days, after they made a covenant with them, they heard that they lived nearby, in their vicinity. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then the Israelites set out and came to their cities on the third day; their cities were Gibʹe·on, Che·phiʹrah, Be·erʹoth, and Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But the Israelites did not attack them, because the chieftains of the assembly had sworn an oath to them by Jehovah the God of Israel. So all the assembly began to murmur against the chieftains. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> At this all the chieftains said to the entire assembly: “Since we swore an oath to them by Jehovah the God of Israel, we are not allowed to hurt them. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> This is what we will do: We will let them live, so that there is no indignation against us because of the oath that we swore to them.” <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And the chieftains added: “Let them live, but let them become gatherers of wood and drawers of water for all the assembly.” This is what the chieftains promised them.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="pos35409"></span><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Joshua now called them and said to them: “Why did you trick us by saying, ‘We are from a place very far away from you,’ when you really live right among us? <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> From now on you are cursed, and you will always occupy a slave’s position as gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.” <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They answered Joshua: “It was because your servants were plainly told that Jehovah your God had commanded Moses his servant to give you all the land and to annihilate all its inhabitants from before you. So we were afraid for our lives<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> because of you, and that is why we did this. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now we are at your mercy.<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> Do to us whatever you think is good and right.” <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And that is what he did with them; he saved them from the hands of the Israelites, and they did not kill them. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But that day Joshua made them gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the assembly and for Jehovah’s altar at the place that He should choose, and they remain so to this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:1</span></a> That is, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:8</span></a> Or “slaves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:10</span></a> That is, the east side.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:14</span></a> Or “examined.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:24</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061110-split9.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 9:25</span></a> Lit., “in your hands.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
