<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_4.xhtml">1 - 44</a></p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos20291"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Then Jesus, full of holy spirit, turned away from the Jordan, and he was led about by the spirit in the wilderness <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> for 40 days, being tempted by the Devil. And he ate nothing in those days, so when they had ended, he felt hungry. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> At this the Devil said to him: “If you are a son of God, tell this stone to become a loaf of bread.” <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But Jesus answered him: “It is written, ‘Man must not live on bread alone.’”</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he brought him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth in an instant of time. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the Devil said to him: “I will give you all this authority and their glory, because it has been handed over to me, and I give it to whomever I wish. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> If you, therefore, do an act of worship before me, it will all be yours.” <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said to him: “It is written, ‘It is Jehovah<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> <span id="page1385" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1385" data-before-text="1385"></span>your God you must worship, and it is to him alone you must render sacred service.’”</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He then led him into Jerusalem and stationed him on the battlement<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> of the temple and said to him: “If you are a son of God, throw yourself down from here, <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> for it is written, ‘He will give his angels a command concerning you, to preserve you,’ <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and, ‘They will carry you on their hands, so that you may not strike your foot against a stone.’” <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to him: “It is said, ‘You must not put Jehovah<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> your God to the test.’” <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So the Devil, having finished all the temptation, departed from him until another convenient time.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos21782"></span><span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now Jesus returned in the power of the spirit into Galʹi·lee. And good reports about him spread throughout all the surrounding country. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Also, he began to teach in their synagogues, and he was held in honor by all.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos22011"></span><span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He then went to Nazʹa·reth, where he had been brought up, and according to his custom on the Sabbath day, he entered the synagogue and stood up to read. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him, and he opened the scroll and found the place where it was written: <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> spirit is upon me, because he anointed me to declare good news to the poor. He sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and a recovery of sight to the blind, to send the crushed ones away free, <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> to preach Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> acceptable year.” <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> With that he rolled up the scroll, handed it back to the attendant, and sat down; and the eyes of all in the synagogue were intently fixed on him. <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then he began to say to them: “Today this scripture that you just heard is fulfilled.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And they all began to give favorable witness about him and to be amazed at the gracious words coming out of his mouth, and they were saying: “This is a son of Joseph, is it not?” <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> At this he said to them: “No doubt you will apply this saying to me, ‘Physician, cure yourself. Do also here in your home territory the things we have heard were done in Ca·perʹna·um.’” <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So he said: “Truly I tell you that no prophet is accepted in his home territory. <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For instance, I tell you in truth: There were many widows in Israel in the days of E·liʹjah when heaven was shut up for three years and six months, and a great famine came on all the land. <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Yet E·liʹjah was sent to none of those women, but only to a widow in Zarʹe·phath in the land of Siʹdon. <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Also, there were many lepers in Israel in the time of E·liʹsha the prophet; yet not one of them was cleansed,<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> only Naʹa·man the Syrian.” <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Now all those hearing these things in the synagogue became filled with anger, <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> and they rose up and rushed him outside the city, and they led him to the brow of the mountain on which their city had been built, in order to throw him down headlong. <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But he went right through their midst and continued on his way.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos24071"></span><span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He then went down to Ca·perʹna·um, a city of Galʹi·lee. And he was teaching them on the Sabbath, <span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> and they were astounded at his way of teaching, because he spoke with authority. <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Now in the synagogue there was a man with a <span id="page1386" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1386" data-before-text="1386"></span>spirit, an unclean demon, and he shouted with a loud voice: <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> “Ah! What have we to do with you, Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ? Did you come to destroy us? I know exactly who you are, the Holy One of God.” <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> But Jesus rebuked it, saying: “Be silent, and come out of him.” So after throwing the man down in their midst, the demon came out of him without hurting him. <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> At this they were all astonished and began to say to one another: “What kind of speech is this? For with authority and power he orders the unclean spirits, and out they come!” <span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> So the news about him kept spreading into every corner of the surrounding country.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos24964"></span><span id="chapter4_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> After leaving the synagogue, he entered into Simon’s home. Now Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever, and they asked him to help her. <span id="chapter4_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. Instantly she got up and began ministering to them.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> But when the sun was setting, all those who had people sick with various diseases brought them to him. By laying his hands on each one of them, he cured them. <span id="chapter4_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Demons also came out of many, crying out and saying: “You are the Son of God.” But rebuking them, he would not permit them to speak, for they knew him to be the Christ.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos25587"></span><span id="chapter4_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> However, at daybreak he departed and went to an isolated place. But the crowds began searching<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> for him and came to where he was, and they tried to keep him from going away from them. <span id="chapter4_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> But he said to them: “I must also declare the good news of the Kingdom of God to other cities, because for this I was sent.” <span id="chapter4_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> So he went on preaching in the synagogues of Ju·deʹa.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:8</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:9</span></a> Or “parapet; highest point.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:18</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:19</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:27</span></a> Or “healed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061146-split4.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 4:42</span></a> Or “hunting.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
