<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_11.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos34341"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Now all the earth continued to be of one language and of one set of words.<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> As they traveled eastward, they discovered a valley plain in the land of Shiʹnar, and they began dwelling there. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then they said to one another: “Come! Let us make bricks and bake them with fire.” So they used bricks instead of stone, and bitumen as mortar. <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They now said: “Come! Let us build a city for ourselves and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a celebrated name for ourselves, so that we will not be scattered over the entire face of the earth.”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="page55" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="55" data-before-text="55"></span><span id="pos34907"></span><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Jehovah went down to see the city and the tower that the sons of men had built. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jehovah then said: “Look! They are one people with one language, and this is what they have started to do. Now there is nothing that they may have in mind to do that will be impossible for them. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Come! Let us go down there and confuse their language in order that they may not understand one another’s language.” <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Jehovah scattered them from there over the entire face of the earth, and they gradually left off building the city. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> That is why it was named Baʹbel,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> because there Jehovah confused the language of all the earth, and Jehovah scattered them from there over the entire face of the earth.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos35618"></span><span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This is the history of Shem.</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb">Shem was 100 years old when he became father to Ar·pachʹshad two years after the Flood. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> After becoming father to Ar·pachʹshad, Shem continued to live 500 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Ar·pachʹshad lived for 35 years and then became father to Sheʹlah. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> After becoming father to Sheʹlah, Ar·pachʹshad continued to live 403 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Sheʹlah lived for 30 years and then became father to Eʹber. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> After becoming father to Eʹber, Sheʹlah continued to live 403 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Eʹber lived for 34 years and then became father to Peʹleg. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After becoming father to Peʹleg, Eʹber continued to live 430 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Peʹleg lived for 30 years and then became father to Reʹu. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> After becoming father to Reʹu, Peʹleg continued to live 209 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Reʹu lived for 32 years and then became father to Seʹrug. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After becoming father to Seʹrug, Reʹu continued to live 207 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Seʹrug lived for 30 years and then became father to Naʹhor. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After becoming father to Naʹhor, Seʹrug continued to live 200 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Naʹhor lived for 29 years and then became father to Teʹrah. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> After becoming father to Teʹrah, Naʹhor continued to live 119 years. And he became father to sons and daughters.</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Teʹrah lived for 70 years, after which he became father to Aʹbram, Naʹhor, and Haʹran.</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos37283"></span><span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> This is the history of Teʹrah.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb">Teʹrah became father to Aʹbram, Naʹhor, and Haʹran; and Haʹran became father to Lot. <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> While his father Teʹrah was still alive, Haʹran died in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chal·deʹans. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Aʹbram and Naʹhor took wives for themselves. The name of Aʹbram’s wife was Sarʹai, and the name of Naʹhor’s wife was Milʹcah, the daughter of Haʹran, the father of Milʹcah and Isʹcah. <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now Sarʹai was barren; she had no child.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="pos37763"></span><span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Teʹrah then took Aʹbram his son and Lot his grandson, the son of Haʹran, and Sarʹai his daughter-in-law, the wife of Aʹbram his son, and they went with him out of Ur of the Chal·deʹans to go to the land of Caʹnaan. In time they came to Haʹran and began dwelling there. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The days of Teʹrah were 205 years. Then Teʹrah died in Haʹran.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p552" data-pid="552"><a href="1001061105-split11.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 11:1</span></a> Or “of one vocabulary.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p553" data-pid="553"><a href="1001061105-split11.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 11:9</span></a> Meaning “Confusion.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
