<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Philippians 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061154"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Philippians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav50.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav50_1.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1570" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1570" data-before-text="1570"></span><strong>TO THE PHILIPPIANS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos71"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the holy ones in union with Christ Jesus who are in Phi·lipʹpi, along with overseers and ministerial servants:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos331"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I thank my God always when I remember you <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> in every supplication <span id="page1571" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1571" data-before-text="1571"></span>of mine for all of you. I offer each supplication with joy, <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> because of the contribution you have made to<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the good news from the first day until this moment. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For I am confident of this very thing, that the one who started a good work in you will bring it to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> It is only right for me to think this regarding all of you, since I have you in my heart, you who are sharers with me in the undeserved kindness both in my prison bonds and in the defending and legally establishing of the good news.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For God is my witness of how I am longing for all of you with such tender affection as Christ Jesus has. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And this is what I continue praying, that your love may abound still more and more with accurate knowledge and full discernment; <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> that you may make sure of the more important things, so that you may be flawless and not stumbling others up to the day of Christ; <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and that you may be filled with righteous fruit, which is through Jesus Christ, to God’s glory and praise.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos1452"></span><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now I want you to know, brothers, that my situation has actually turned out for the advancement of the good news, <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> so that my prison bonds for the sake of Christ have become public knowledge among all the Prae·toʹri·an Guard and all the rest. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now most of the brothers in the Lord have gained confidence because of my prison bonds, and they are showing all the more courage to speak the word of God fearlessly.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> True, some are preaching the Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of goodwill. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The latter are proclaiming the Christ out of love, for they know that I have been appointed to defend the good news; <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> but the former do it out of contentiousness, not with a pure motive, for they are intending to create trouble for me in my prison bonds. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> With what result? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is being proclaimed, and I rejoice over this. In fact, I will also keep on rejoicing, <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> for I know that this will result in my salvation through your supplication and with the support of the spirit of Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> This is in harmony with my eager expectation and hope that I will not be ashamed in any respect, but that with all freeness of speech Christ will now, as always before, be magnified by means of my body, whether through life or through death.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos2808"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For in my case, to live is Christ and to die is gain. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now if I am to live on in the flesh, this is a fruitage of my work; yet what I would choose, I do not make known. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> I am torn between these two things, for I do desire the releasing and the being with Christ, which is, to be sure, far better. <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> However, it is more necessary for me to remain in the flesh for your sakes. <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So, being confident of this, I know I will remain and continue with all of you for your advancement and your joy in the faith, <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> so that your exultation may overflow in Christ Jesus because of me when I am again present with you.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos3449"></span><span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Only behave<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> in a manner worthy of the good news about the Christ, so that whether I come and see you or I am absent, I may hear about you and learn that you are standing firm <span id="page1572" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1572" data-before-text="1572"></span>in one spirit, with one soul,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> striving side by side for the faith of the good news, <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and in no way being frightened by your opponents. This very thing is a proof of destruction for them, but of salvation for you; and this is from God. <span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For you have been given the privilege in behalf of Christ, not only to put your faith in him but also to suffer in his behalf. <span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> For you are facing the same struggle that you saw me face, which you now hear that I am still facing.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p29" data-pid="29"><a href="1001061154.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 1:5</span></a> Or “because of your participation in furthering.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p30" data-pid="30"><a href="1001061154.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 1:27</span></a> Or “carry on as citizens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p31" data-pid="31"><a href="1001061154.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Phil. 1:27</span></a> Or “with one accord.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
