<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_22.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="pos108577"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Jo·siʹah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned for 31 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·diʹdah the daughter of A·daiʹah from Bozʹkath. <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He did what was right in Jehovah’s eyes and walked in all the ways of David his forefather, and he did not deviate to the right or to the left.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos108898"></span><span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> In the 18th year of King Jo·siʹah, the king sent Shaʹphan the secretary, the son of Az·a·liʹah the son of Me·shulʹlam, to the house of Jehovah, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Go up to Hil·kiʹah the high priest, and let him collect all the money that is being brought into the house of Jehovah, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Have them give it to those appointed over the work in the house of Jehovah who, in turn, will give it to the workers in the house of Jehovah who are to repair the damage to<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> the house, <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> that is, to the craftsmen, the builders, and the masons; and they are to use it to buy timbers and hewn stones to repair the house. <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But no accounting should be required of them for the money that they are given, because they are trustworthy.”</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="pos109679"></span><span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Later Hil·kiʹah the high priest said to Shaʹphan the secretary: “I have found the book of the Law in the house of Jehovah.” So Hil·kiʹah gave the book to Shaʹphan, who began to read it. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then Shaʹphan the secretary went to the king and told him: “Your servants have poured out the money that was found in the house, and they have handed it over to those appointed over the work in the house of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Shaʹphan the secretary also told the king: “There is a book that Hil·kiʹah the priest has given me.” Then Shaʹphan began to read it before the king.</p>
<p id="p198" data-pid="198" class="p198 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> As soon as the king heard the words of the book of the Law, he ripped his garments apart. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the king gave this order to Hil·kiʹah the priest, A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan, Achʹbor the son of Mi·caiʹah, Shaʹphan the secretary, and A·saiʹah the king’s servant: <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Go, inquire of Jehovah in my behalf, in behalf of the people, and in behalf of all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found; for Jehovah’s rage that has been set ablaze against us is great, because our forefathers did not obey the words of this book by observing all that is written concerning us.”</p>
<p id="p199" data-pid="199" class="p199 sb"><span id="pos110856"></span><span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Hil·kiʹah the priest, A·hiʹkam, Achʹbor, Shaʹphan, and A·saiʹah went to Hulʹdah the prophetess. She was the wife of Shalʹlum son of Tikʹvah son of Harʹhas, the caretaker of the wardrobe, and she was dwelling in the Second Quarter of Jerusalem; and they spoke to her there. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> She said to them: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘Tell the man who sent you to me: <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says, ‘I will bring calamity on this place and its inhabitants, all the words of the book that the king of Judah has read. <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Because they have abandoned me and are making sacrifices smoke to other gods in order to offend me with all the work of their hands, my rage will be set ablaze against this place and it will not be extinguished.’” <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, this is what you <span id="page560" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="560" data-before-text="560"></span>should say to him, “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘Regarding the words that you have heard, <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> because your heart was responsive<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> and you humbled yourself before Jehovah on hearing what I have spoken against this place and its inhabitants—that they would become an object of horror and a curse—and you ripped your garments apart and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> That is why I will gather you to your ancestors,<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> and you will be laid in your grave in peace, and your eyes will not see all the calamity that I will bring on this place.’”’” Then they brought the reply to the king.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061116-split22.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 22:5</span></a> Or “the cracks in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p401" data-pid="401"><a href="1001061116-split22.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 22:19</span></a> Lit., “soft.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p402" data-pid="402"><a href="1001061116-split22.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 22:20</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
