<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Titus 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061160"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Titus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav56.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav56_3.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos4204"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Continue reminding them to be in subjection and to be obedient to governments and authorities, to be ready for every good work, <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> to speak injuriously of no one, not to be quarrelsome, but to be reasonable, displaying all mildness toward all men. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For we too were once senseless, disobedient, led astray, being slaves to various desires and pleasures, carrying on in badness and envy, detestable, hating one another.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos4632"></span><span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, when the kindness of our Savior, God, and his love for mankind were manifested <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> (not because of any righteous works we had done, but because of his own mercy), he saved us by means of the bath that brought us to life and by making us new by holy spirit. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He poured this spirit out richly<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> on us through Jesus Christ our Savior, <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> so that after being declared righteous through the undeserved kindness of that one, we might become heirs according to a hope of everlasting life.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> These words are trustworthy, and I want you to keep stressing these matters, so that those who have believed God may keep their minds focused on maintaining fine works. These things are fine and beneficial to men.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos5354"></span><span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But have nothing to do with foolish arguments and genealogies and disputes and fights over the Law, for they are unprofitable and futile. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As for a man who promotes a sect, reject him after a first and a second admonition,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> knowing that such a man has deviated from the way and is sinning and is self-condemned.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos5684"></span><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When I send Arʹte·mas or Tychʹi·cus to you, do your utmost to come to me at Ni·copʹo·lis, for that is where I have decided to spend the winter. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Carefully supply Zeʹnas, who is versed in the Law, and A·polʹlos so that they may lack nothing for their trip. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But let our people also learn to maintain fine works so as to help in cases of urgent need, so that they may not be unproductive.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a></p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> All those with me send you their greetings. Give my greetings to those who have affection for us in the faith.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb">May the undeserved kindness be with all of you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061160-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Titus 3:6</span></a> Or “generously.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061160-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Titus 3:10</span></a> Or “warning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061160-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Titus 3:14</span></a> Lit., “unfruitful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
