<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_25.xhtml">1 - 44</a></p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="pos107486"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>In time Samuel died; and all Israel gathered together to mourn for him and to bury him at his house in Raʹmah. Then David rose and went down to the wilderness of Paʹran.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="pos107663"></span><span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now there was a man in Maʹon whose work was in Carʹmel.<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> The man was very wealthy; he had 3,000 sheep and 1,000 goats, and he was then shearing his sheep at Carʹmel. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The man’s name was Naʹbal, and his wife’s name was Abʹi·gail. The wife was discerning and beautiful, but the husband, a Caʹleb·ite, was harsh, and he behaved badly. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> David heard in the wilderness that Naʹbal was shearing his sheep. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So David sent ten young men to him, and David told the young men: “Go up to Carʹmel, and when you come to Naʹbal, ask him in my name about his welfare. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then say, ‘May you live long and may you be well<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> and may your household be well and may all that you have be well. <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now I hear that you are doing your shearing. When your shepherds were with us, we did not harm them, and they found nothing missing the whole time they were in Carʹmel. <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Ask your young men, and they will tell you. May my young men find favor in your eyes, because we have come at a joyous time.<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> Please give to your servants and to your son David whatever you can spare.’”</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So David’s young men went and told all of this to Naʹbal in David’s name. When they finished, <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Naʹbal answered David’s servants: “Who is David, and who is the son of Jesʹse? Nowadays many servants are breaking away from their masters. <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Do I have to take my bread and my water and the meat that I butchered for my shearers and give it to men who come from who knows where?”</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At that David’s young men returned and reported all these words to him. <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David immediately said to his men: “Everyone strap on your sword!” So they all strapped on their swords, and David also strapped on his own sword, and about 400 men went up with David, while 200 men stayed with the baggage.</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="pos109435"></span><span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Meanwhile, one of the servants reported to Abʹi·gail, Naʹbal’s wife: “Look! David sent messengers from the wilderness to wish our master well, but he screamed insults at them. <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Those men were <span id="page433" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="433" data-before-text="433"></span>very good to us. They never harmed us, and we did not miss a single thing the whole time we were together with them in the fields. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They were like a protective wall around us, both by night and by day, the whole time we were with them shepherding the flock. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now decide what you are going to do, for disaster has been determined against our master and against all his house, and he is such a worthless<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> man that no one can speak to him.”</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Abʹi·gail quickly took 200 loaves of bread, two large jars of wine, five dressed sheep, five seah measures<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> of roasted grain, 100 cakes of raisins, and 200 cakes of pressed figs and put all of it on the donkeys. <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then she said to her servants: “Go on ahead of me; I will follow you.” But she said nothing to her husband Naʹbal.</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> While she was riding on the donkey and going down under cover of the mountain, just then David and his men were coming down toward her, and she met them. <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Now David had been saying: “It was for nothing that I guarded everything that belongs to this fellow in the wilderness. Not a single thing belonging to him went missing, and yet he repays me evil for good. <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> May God do the same and more to the enemies of David<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> if I allow a single male<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> of his to survive until the morning.”</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When Abʹi·gail caught sight of David, she hurried down off the donkey and threw herself facedown before David, bowing to the ground. <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> She then fell at his feet and said: “My lord, let the blame be on me; let your servant girl speak to you, and listen to the words of your servant girl. <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Please, do not let my lord pay attention to this worthless Naʹbal, for he is just like his name. Naʹbal<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> is his name, and senselessness is with him. But I, your servant girl, did not see my lord’s young men whom you sent. <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And now, my lord, as surely as Jehovah is living and as you are<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> living, it is Jehovah who has held you back from incurring bloodguilt and from taking revenge<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> with your own hand. May your enemies and those seeking injury to my lord become like Naʹbal. <span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Now let this gift<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> that your servant girl has brought to my lord be given to the young men who are following my lord. <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Pardon, please, the transgression of your servant girl, for Jehovah will without fail make for my lord a lasting house, because my lord is fighting the wars of Jehovah, and no evil has been found in you all your days. <span id="pos112084"></span><span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> When someone rises up to pursue you and seeks your life,<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> the life<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> of my lord will be wrapped securely in the bag of life with Jehovah your God, but the lives<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> of your enemies he will hurl away like stones from a sling.<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And when Jehovah has done for my lord all the good things he has promised and he appoints you as leader over Israel, <span id="chapter25_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> you will have no remorse or regret<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> in your heart for shedding blood without cause and for letting the hand of my lord take revenge.<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> When Jehovah confers <span id="page434" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="434" data-before-text="434"></span>good upon my lord, remember your servant girl.”</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> At this David said to Abʹi·gail: “Praise Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me! <span id="chapter25_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And blessed be your good sense! May you be blessed for restraining me this day from incurring bloodguilt and from taking revenge<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> with my own hands. <span id="chapter25_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Otherwise, as surely as Jehovah the God of Israel who held me back from harming you is living, if you had not come quickly to meet me, by morning there would not have remained a single male<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> belonging to Naʹbal.” <span id="chapter25_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> With that David accepted from her what she had brought him and said to her: “Go up in peace to your house. See, I have listened to you, and I will grant your request.”</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="pos113317"></span><span id="chapter25_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Abʹi·gail later went back to Naʹbal, who was feasting like a king in his house, and Naʹbal<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> was in a good mood and was as drunk as could be. She did not tell him a single thing until the morning light. <span id="chapter25_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> In the morning, when Naʹbal was sober, his wife told him these things. And his heart became like a dead man’s, and he lay paralyzed like a stone. <span id="chapter25_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> About ten days later, Jehovah struck Naʹbal, and he died.</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="pos113744"></span><span id="chapter25_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> When David heard that Naʹbal had died, he said: “Praise Jehovah, who has pleaded my case of reproach from Naʹbal and has kept his servant from doing anything bad, and Jehovah has brought the badness of Naʹbal back on his own head!” Then David sent word to propose to Abʹi·gail to take her as his wife. <span id="chapter25_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> So David’s servants came to Abʹi·gail at Carʹmel and said to her: “David has sent us to you to take you as his wife.” <span id="chapter25_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> She immediately rose up and bowed with her face to the ground and said: “Here is your slave as a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.” <span id="chapter25_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Then Abʹi·gail quickly rose up and rode on her donkey with five of her female servants walking behind her; she accompanied the messengers of David and became his wife.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> David had also married A·hinʹo·am from Jezʹre·el, and both women became his wives.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> But Saul had given his daughter Miʹchal, David’s wife, to Palʹti the son of Laʹish, who was from Galʹlim.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:2</span></a> A city in Judah; not the same as Mount Carmel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:6</span></a> Or “may you have peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:8</span></a> Lit., “a good day.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:17</span></a> Or “good-for-nothing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:18</span></a> A seah equaled 7.33 L (6.66 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:22</span></a> Or possibly, “to David.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:22</span></a> Lit., “anyone urinating against a wall.” A Hebrew expression of contempt referring to males.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:25</span></a> Meaning “Senseless; Stupid.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:26</span></a> Or “your soul is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:26</span></a> Or “bringing salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:27</span></a> Lit., “blessing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:29</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:29</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p395" data-pid="395"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:29</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p396" data-pid="396"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:29</span></a> Or “as from the hollow of a sling.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p397" data-pid="397"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:31</span></a> Lit., “staggering or stumbling.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p398" data-pid="398"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:31</span></a> Or “bring salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p399" data-pid="399"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:33</span></a> Or “bringing salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:34</span></a> Lit., “anyone urinating against a wall.” A Hebrew expression of contempt referring to males.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p401" data-pid="401"><a href="1001061113-split25.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 25:36</span></a> Lit., “Nabal’s heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
