<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_8.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos22013"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Now concerning food offered to idols: We know we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> If anyone thinks he knows something, he does not yet know it as he should know it. <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now concerning the eating of food offered to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no God but one. <span id="pos22404"></span><span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For even though there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, just as there are many “gods” and many “lords,” <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> there is actually to us one God, the Father, from whom all things are and we for him; and there is one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things are and we through him.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> However, not all have this knowledge. But some, because of their former association with the idol, eat food as something sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But food will not bring us nearer to God; we are no worse off if we do not eat, nor better off if we eat. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But keep watching that your right to choose does not somehow become a stumbling block to those who are weak. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For if anyone should see you who have knowledge having a meal in an idol temple, will not the conscience of that one who is weak be emboldened to the point of eating food offered to idols? <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So by your knowledge the man who is weak is being ruined, your brother for whose sake Christ died. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When you sin against your brothers in this way and wound their weak conscience, you are sinning against Christ. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> That is why if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat at all, so that I will not make my brother stumble.</p>
</body>
</html>
