<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_13.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos47194"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Now David’s son Abʹsa·lom had a beautiful sister named Taʹmar, and David’s son Amʹnon fell in love with her. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Amʹnon was so distressed that he became sick because of his sister Taʹmar, for she was a virgin and it seemed impossible for Amʹnon to do anything to her. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now Amʹnon had a companion named Je·honʹa·dab, the son of Shimʹe·ah, David’s brother; and Je·honʹa·dab was a very clever man. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So he said to him: “Why are you, the king’s son, so depressed every morning? Why not tell me?” Amʹnon replied to him: “I am in love with Taʹmar, the sister of my brother Abʹsa·lom.” <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Je·honʹa·dab replied to him: “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be sick. When your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Please, let my sister Taʹmar come and serve me some food. If she prepares the food given to the sick<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> before my eyes, I will eat it from her hand.’”</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Amʹnon lay down and pretended to be sick, and the king came in to see him. Then Amʹnon said to the king: “Please, let my sister Taʹmar come in and bake two heart-shaped cakes before my eyes so that I may take food from her hand.” <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At that David sent a message to Taʹmar at the house, saying: “Please go to the house of your brother Amʹnon and prepare food<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> for him.” <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Taʹmar went to the house of her brother Amʹnon, where he was lying down. She took the dough and kneaded it into cakes before his eyes and cooked the cakes. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then she took the pan and served him. But Amʹnon refused to eat and said: “Have everybody leave me!” So everybody left him.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Amʹnon now said to Taʹmar: “Bring the food<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> into the bedroom, so that I may eat it from your hand.” So Taʹmar took the heart-shaped cakes that she had made and brought them to her brother Amʹnon in the bedroom. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When she brought them for him to eat, he grabbed her and said: “Come, lie down with me, my sister.” <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But she said to him: “No, my brother! Do not humiliate me, for such a thing is not done in Israel. Do not do this disgraceful thing. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> How could I live down my shame? And you will be regarded as one of the disgraceful men in Israel. Now speak, please, to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.” <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But he refused to listen to her, and he overpowered her and humiliated her by raping her. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then <span id="page458" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="458" data-before-text="458"></span>Amʹnon began hating her with a very intense hatred, so that his hatred for her became greater than the love he had felt for her. Amʹnon said to her: “Get up; go away!” <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At this she said to him: “No, my brother, for sending me away now is worse than what you have done with me!” But he refused to listen to her.</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> With that he called his young attendant and said: “Get this person out of my presence, please, and lock the door behind her.” <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> (Now she was wearing a special<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> robe, for those were the garments that the virgin daughters of the king wore.) So his attendant led her outside, and he locked the door behind her. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then Taʹmar put ashes on her head, and she ripped apart the fine robe she was wearing; and she kept her hands on her head and walked off, crying out as she walked.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At this her brother Abʹsa·lom asked her: “Was it your brother Amʹnon who was with you? And now keep silent, my sister. He is your brother. Do not let your heart dwell on this matter.” Then Taʹmar lived in isolation at the house of her brother Abʹsa·lom. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When King David heard about all these things, he became very angry. But he would not hurt the feelings of Amʹnon his son, because he loved him, for he was his firstborn. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And Abʹsa·lom said nothing to Amʹnon, either bad or good; for Abʹsa·lom hated Amʹnon because he had humiliated his sister Taʹmar.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos50874"></span><span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After two full years, Abʹsa·lom’s sheepshearers were at Baʹal-haʹzor, near Eʹphra·im, and Abʹsa·lom invited all the sons of the king. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So Abʹsa·lom came in to the king and said: “Your servant is having his sheep sheared. Please let the king and his servants go with me.” <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But the king said to Abʹsa·lom: “No, my son. If all of us go, we will be a burden to you.” Although he kept urging him, he did not consent to go, but he blessed him. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom then said: “If not you, please let my brother Amʹnon go with us.” The king replied to him: “Why should he go with you?” <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But Abʹsa·lom urged him, so he sent Amʹnon and all the king’s sons with him.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then Abʹsa·lom ordered his attendants: “Watch, and when Amʹnon’s heart is in a cheerful mood from the wine, I will say to you, ‘Strike down Amʹnon!’ You must then put him to death. Do not be afraid. Is it not I who command you? Be strong and courageous.” <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Abʹsa·lom’s attendants did to Amʹnon exactly as Abʹsa·lom had ordered; then all the other sons of the king got up, and each one mounted his mule and fled. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> While they were on the way, the report reached David: “Abʹsa·lom has struck down all the sons of the king, and not one of them survived.” <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> At this the king got up and ripped his clothes apart and lay on the ground, and all his servants were standing by with their garments ripped apart.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> However, Je·honʹa·dab the son of Shimʹe·ah, David’s brother, said: “Do not let my lord think that they have killed all the young sons of the king, for only Amʹnon has died. This is by the order of Abʹsa·lom, who decided to do this from the day that Amʹnon humiliated his sister Taʹmar. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Now do not let my lord the king pay attention to<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> the report that says, ‘All the king’s sons have died’; only Amʹnon has died.”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="page459" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="459" data-before-text="459"></span><span id="pos52715"></span><span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Meanwhile, Abʹsa·lom ran away. Later the watchman raised his eyes and saw that there were many people coming from the road behind him next to the mountain. <span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> At this Je·honʹa·dab said to the king: “Look! The king’s sons have returned. It is just as your servant said.” <span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> As he finished speaking, the king’s sons came in, weeping loudly; also the king and all his servants wept very bitterly. <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But Abʹsa·lom fled and went to Talʹmai the son of Am·miʹhud the king of Geshʹur. David mourned his son for many days. <span id="chapter13_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> After Abʹsa·lom fled and went to Geshʹur, he stayed there for three years.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Finally King David longed to go to Abʹsa·lom, for he had become reconciled to<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> the death of Amʹnon.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:5</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:7</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:10</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:18</span></a> Or “an ornamented.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:33</span></a> Lit., “take to his heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061114-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:39</span></a> Or “had found consolation over.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
