<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_26.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p864" data-pid="864" class="p864 sb"><span id="pos107642"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26</strong> </span>In the beginning of the reign of Je·hoiʹa·kim son of Jo·siʹah, the king of Judah, this word came from Jehovah: <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah says, ‘Stand in the courtyard of the house of Jehovah and speak concerning<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a> all the people of the cities of Judah who are coming in to worship<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> at the house of Jehovah. Tell them everything that I command you; do not take away a word. <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Perhaps they will listen and each one will turn back from his evil way, and I will change my mind concerning<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a> the calamity that I intend to bring on them because of their evil deeds. <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Say to them: “This is <span id="page1074" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1074" data-before-text="1074"></span>what Jehovah says, ‘If you will not listen to me by following my law<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> that I have placed before you, <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> by listening to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I am sending to you again and again,<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> whom you have not listened to, <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> then I will make this house like Shiʹloh, and I will make this city an object of cursing to all the nations of the earth.’”’”</p>
<p id="p865" data-pid="865" class="p865 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that Jehovah had commanded him to speak to all the people, then the priests and the prophets and all the people seized him and said: “You will surely die. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Why have you prophesied in the name of Jehovah, saying, ‘This house will become like Shiʹloh, and this city will be devastated and left without an inhabitant’?” And all the people gathered around Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p866" data-pid="866" class="p866 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When the princes of Judah heard these words, they came up from the house<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> of the king to the house of Jehovah and sat down at the entrance of the new gate of Jehovah. <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The priests and the prophets said to the princes and to all the people: “This man deserves the death penalty, because he has prophesied against this city just as you have heard with your own ears.”</p>
<p id="p867" data-pid="867" class="p867 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jeremiah then said to all the princes and to all the people: “It was Jehovah who sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard. <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So now, reform your ways and your actions and obey the voice of Jehovah your God, and Jehovah will change his mind concerning<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> the calamity that he has spoken against you. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But as for me, I am in your hand. Do to me whatever seems good and right in your eyes. <span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Only know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and upon this city and upon her inhabitants, for in truth Jehovah sent me to you to speak all these words in your hearing.”</p>
<p id="p868" data-pid="868" class="p868 sb"><span id="pos110229"></span><span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then the princes and all the people said to the priests and the prophets: “This man does not deserve the death penalty, for he spoke to us in the name of Jehovah our God.”</p>
<p id="p869" data-pid="869" class="p869 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Furthermore, some of the elders of the land rose up and began saying to the entire congregation of the people: <span id="pos110526"></span><span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Miʹcah of Moʹresh·eth was prophesying in the days of King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah, and he said to all the people of Judah, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p870" data-pid="870" class="p870 sz">“Zion will be plowed up as a field,</p><p data-pid="870" class="p870 sz">Jerusalem will become heaps of ruins,</p><p data-pid="870" class="p870 sz">And the mountain of the House<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> will become like high places in a forest.”’<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a></p>
<p id="p871" data-pid="871" class="p871 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Did King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah and all Judah then put him to death? Did he not fear Jehovah and beg for Jehovah’s favor,<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> so that Jehovah changed his mind concerning<span id="footnotesource234"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote234">*</a> the calamity that he had spoken against them? So we are about to bring a great calamity on ourselves.<span id="footnotesource235"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote235">*</a></p>
<p id="p872" data-pid="872" class="p872 sb"><span id="pos111130"></span><span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “And there was another man prophesying in the name of Jehovah, U·riʹjah son of She·maiʹah from Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim, <span id="page1075" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1075" data-before-text="1075"></span>who prophesied against this city and against this land with words like those of Jeremiah. <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> King Je·hoiʹa·kim and all his mighty men and all the princes heard his words, and the king sought to put him to death. When U·riʹjah heard of it, he at once became afraid and fled to Egypt. <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then King Je·hoiʹa·kim sent El·naʹthan the son of Achʹbor and other men with him to Egypt. <span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They brought U·riʹjah from Egypt and took him to King Je·hoiʹa·kim, who then struck him down with the sword and cast his dead body into the graveyard of the common people.”</p>
<p id="p873" data-pid="873" class="p873 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan supported Jeremiah, so that he was not handed over to the people to be put to death.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p1801" data-pid="1801"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:2</span></a> Or “to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p1802" data-pid="1802"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:2</span></a> Or “bow down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p1803" data-pid="1803"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:3</span></a> Or “feel regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p1804" data-pid="1804"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:4</span></a> Or “instruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p1805" data-pid="1805"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:5</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and sending.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p1806" data-pid="1806"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:10</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p1807" data-pid="1807"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:13</span></a> Or “feel regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p1808" data-pid="1808"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:18</span></a> Or “the temple mount.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p1809" data-pid="1809"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:18</span></a> Or “like a wooded ridge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p id="p1810" data-pid="1810"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:19</span></a> Or “try to soften the face of Jehovah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote234"><p id="p1811" data-pid="1811"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource234">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:19</span></a> Or “felt regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote235"><p id="p1812" data-pid="1812"><a href="1001061128-split26.xhtml#footnotesource235">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 26:19</span></a> Or “our souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
