<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Thessalonians 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061157"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav53.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav53_3.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos4450"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Finally, brothers, carry on prayer for us, that the word of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> may keep spreading rapidly and being glorified, just as it is with you, <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and that we may be rescued from harmful and wicked men, for faith is not a possession of all people. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen you and protect you from the wicked one. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Moreover, we have confidence in the Lord regarding you, that you are carrying out and will go on carrying out our instructions. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> May the Lord continue to guide your hearts successfully to the love of God and to the endurance for the Christ.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos5045"></span><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now we are giving you instructions, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to withdraw from every brother who is walking disorderly and not according to the tradition<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> that you<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> received from us. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For you yourselves know how you should imitate us, because we did not behave in a disorderly way among you, <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> nor did we eat anyone’s food free.<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> On the contrary, by labor and toil we were working night and day so as not to impose an expensive burden on any one of you. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Not that we do not have authority, but we wanted to offer ourselves as an example for you to imitate. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> In fact, when we were with you, we used to give you this order: “If anyone does not want to work, neither let him eat.” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For we hear that some are walking disorderly among you, not working at all, but meddling with what does not concern them. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> To such people we give the order and exhortation in the Lord Jesus Christ that they should work quietly and eat food they themselves earn.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For your part, brothers, do not give up in doing good. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But if anyone is not obedient to our word through this letter, keep this one marked and stop associating with him, so that he may become ashamed. <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And yet do not consider him an enemy, but continue admonishing him as a brother.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos6353"></span><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace constantly in every way. May the Lord be with all of you.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand, which is a sign in every letter; this is the way I write.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p28" data-pid="28"><a href="1001061157-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Thess. 3:1</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p29" data-pid="29"><a href="1001061157-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Thess. 3:6</span></a> Or “instruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p30" data-pid="30"><a href="1001061157-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Thess. 3:6</span></a> Or possibly, “they.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p31" data-pid="31"><a href="1001061157-split3.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Thess. 3:8</span></a> Or “without paying.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
