<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_22.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos63625"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>And he showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, flowing out from the throne of God and of the Lamb <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> down the middle of its main street. On both sides of the river were trees of life producing 12 crops of fruit, yielding their fruit each month. And the leaves of the trees were for the healing of the nations.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And there will no longer be any curse. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his slaves will offer him sacred service; <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Also, night will be no more, and they have no need of lamplight or sunlight, for Jehovah<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> God will shed light upon them, and they will rule as kings forever and ever.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="pos64354"></span><span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He said to me: “These words are faithful<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> and true; yes, Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> the God who inspired the prophets, has sent his angel to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Look! I am coming quickly. Happy is anyone observing the words of the prophecy of this scroll.”</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Well I, John, was the one hearing and seeing these things. <span id="page1661" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1661" data-before-text="1661"></span>When I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who had been showing me these things. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But he tells me: “Be careful! Do not do that! I am only a fellow slave of you and of your brothers the prophets and of those observing the words of this scroll. Worship God.”</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> He also tells me: “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the appointed time is near. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Let the one who is unrighteous continue in unrighteousness, and let the filthy one continue in his filth; but let the righteous one continue in righteousness, and let the holy one continue in holiness.</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘Look! I am coming quickly, and the reward I give is with me, to repay each one according to his work. <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> I am the Alʹpha and the O·meʹga,<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> the first and the last, the beginning and the end. <span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Happy are those who wash their robes, so that they may have authority to go to the trees of life and that they may gain entrance into the city through its gates. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Outside are the dogs<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> and those who practice spiritism and those who are sexually immoral<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices lying.’</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘I, Jesus, sent my angel to bear witness to you about these things for the congregations. I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright morning star.’”</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos66053"></span><span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the spirit and the bride keep on saying, “Come!” and let anyone hearing say, “Come!” and let anyone thirsting come; let anyone who wishes take life’s water free.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “I am bearing witness to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone makes an addition to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this scroll; <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and if anyone takes anything away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take his portion away from the trees of life and out of the holy city, things that are written about in this scroll.</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos66650"></span><span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “The one who bears witness of these things says, ‘Yes, I am coming quickly.’”</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb">“Amen! Come, Lord Jesus.”</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> May the undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus be with the holy ones.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p274" data-pid="274"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:5</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p275" data-pid="275"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:6</span></a> Or “trustworthy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p276" data-pid="276"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:13</span></a> Or “the A and the Z.” Alpha and Omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:15</span></a> That is, those whose practices are disgusting in God’s eyes.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061170-split22.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 22:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>, “Sexual immorality.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
