<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 42</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">42</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_42.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p1104" data-pid="1104" class="p1104 sb"><span id="pos180851"></span><span id="chapter42"></span><span id="chapter42_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>42</strong> </span>Then all the army chiefs, and Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah, Jez·a·niʹah the son of Ho·shaiʹah, and all the people, from the least to the greatest, approached <span id="chapter42_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and said to Jeremiah the prophet: “Hear, please, our request for favor, and pray in our behalf to Jehovah your God, in behalf of all this remnant, for just a few of many are left, as you can see. <span id="chapter42_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> May Jehovah your God tell us the way we should walk and what we should do.”</p>
<p id="p1105" data-pid="1105" class="p1105 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jeremiah the prophet replied to them: “I have heard you, and I am praying to Jehovah your God according to your request; and every word that Jehovah answers you, I will tell you. I will not hold back a word from you.”</p>
<p id="p1106" data-pid="1106" class="p1106 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They replied to Jeremiah: “May Jehovah be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not do exactly as Jehovah your God instructs us through you. <span id="chapter42_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Whether good or bad, we will obey the voice of Jehovah our God, to whom we are sending you, so that it may go well with us because we obey the voice of Jehovah our God.”</p>
<p id="p1107" data-pid="1107" class="p1107 sb"><span id="pos181848"></span><span id="chapter42_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now ten days later the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah. <span id="chapter42_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So he called for Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and for all the army chiefs who were with him and for all the people, from the least to the greatest. <span id="chapter42_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He said to them: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, to whom you sent me to present your request for favor before him: <span id="chapter42_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> ‘If you will indeed remain in this land, then I will build you up and not tear you down, and I will plant you and not uproot you, for I will feel regret<span id="footnotesource365"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote365">*</a> over the calamity I have caused you. <span id="chapter42_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Do not be afraid because of the king of Babylon, whom you fear.’</p>
<p id="p1108" data-pid="1108" class="p1108 sb">“‘Do not be afraid because of him,’ declares Jehovah, ‘for I am with you, to save you and to rescue you out of his hand. <span id="chapter42_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And I will show you mercy, and he will have mercy on you and return you to your own land.</p>
<p id="p1109" data-pid="1109" class="p1109 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘But if you say, “No, we will not remain in this land!” and you disobey the voice of Jehovah your God <span id="chapter42_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> by saying, “No, we will go instead to the land of Egypt, where we will not see war or hear the sound of the horn or hunger for bread; there is where we will live,” <span id="chapter42_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> then hear the word of Jehovah, O remnant of Judah. This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “If you are absolutely determined to go to Egypt and you go there to reside,<span id="footnotesource366"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote366">*</a> <span id="chapter42_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> then the very sword you are afraid of will catch up with you there in the land of Egypt, and the very famine you fear will follow after you to Egypt, and there you will die. <span id="chapter42_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And all the men who are determined to go to Egypt to reside there will die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.<span id="footnotesource367"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote367">*</a> None of them will survive or escape the calamity that I will bring on them.”’</p>
<p id="p1110" data-pid="1110" class="p1110 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Just as my anger and my wrath were poured out on <span id="page1099" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1099" data-before-text="1099"></span>the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so my wrath will be poured out on you if you go to Egypt, and you will become a curse, an object of horror, a malediction, and a reproach, and you will never again see this place.’</p>
<p id="p1111" data-pid="1111" class="p1111 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Jehovah has spoken against you, O remnant of Judah. Do not go to Egypt. You should know for a certainty that I have warned you today <span id="chapter42_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> that your error will cost you your lives.<span id="footnotesource368"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote368">*</a> For you sent me to Jehovah your God, saying, ‘Pray in our behalf to Jehovah our God, and tell us everything that Jehovah our God says, and we will do it.’ <span id="chapter42_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And I told you today, but you will not obey the voice of Jehovah your God or do anything he sent me to tell you. <span id="chapter42_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Therefore, know for a certainty that by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence you will die in the place where you desire to go and reside.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote365"><p id="p1942" data-pid="1942"><a href="1001061128-split42.xhtml#footnotesource365">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 42:10</span></a> Or “feel grieved.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote366"><p id="p1943" data-pid="1943"><a href="1001061128-split42.xhtml#footnotesource366">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 42:15</span></a> Or “to reside for a while.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote367"><p id="p1944" data-pid="1944"><a href="1001061128-split42.xhtml#footnotesource367">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 42:17</span></a> Or “disease.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote368"><p id="p1945" data-pid="1945"><a href="1001061128-split42.xhtml#footnotesource368">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 42:20</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
