<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_25.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p840" data-pid="840" class="p840 sb"><span id="pos101339"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Je·hoiʹa·kim son of Jo·siʹah, the king of Judah, which was the first year of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource215"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote215">*</a> of Babylon. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is what Jeremiah the prophet spoke concerning<span id="footnotesource216"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote216">*</a> all the people of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem:</p>
<p id="p841" data-pid="841" class="p841 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “From the 13th year of Jo·siʹah son of Aʹmon, the king of Judah, to this day, these 23 years, the word of Jehovah has come to me, and I kept speaking to you again and again,<span id="footnotesource217"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote217">*</a> but you would not listen. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And Jehovah sent all his servants the prophets to you, sending them again and again,<span id="footnotesource218"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote218">*</a> but you would not listen or incline your ear to hear. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They would say, ‘Turn back, please, each of you from your evil ways and your evil deeds; then you will continue dwelling for a long time to come in the land that Jehovah long ago gave to you and to your forefathers. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Do not follow other gods and serve them and bow down to them, offending me with the work of your hands; otherwise I will bring calamity on you.’</p>
<p id="p842" data-pid="842" class="p842 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘But you would not listen to me,’ declares Jehovah. ‘Instead you offended me with the <span id="page1072" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1072" data-before-text="1072"></span>work of your hands, to your own calamity.’</p>
<p id="p843" data-pid="843" class="p843 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘“Because you would not obey my words, <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I am sending for all the families of the north,” declares Jehovah, “sending for King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> of Babylon, my servant, and I will bring them against this land and against its inhabitants and against all these surrounding nations. I will devote them to destruction and make them an object of horror and something to whistle at and a perpetual ruin. <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I will put an end to the sound of exultation and the sound of rejoicing from them, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the hand mill and the light of the lamp. <span id="pos103183"></span><span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And all this land will be reduced to ruins and will become an object of horror, and these nations will have to serve the king of Babylon for 70 years.”’</p>
<p id="p844" data-pid="844" class="p844 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘But when 70 years have been fulfilled, I will call to account<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> the king of Babylon and that nation for their error,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and I will make the land of the Chal·deʹans a desolate wasteland for all time. <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> I will bring on that land all my words that I have spoken against it, all that is written in this book that Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations. <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For many nations and great kings will make slaves of them, and I will repay them according to their deeds and the work of their own hands.’”</p>
<p id="p845" data-pid="845" class="p845 sb"><span id="pos103885"></span><span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah the God of Israel said to me: “Take this cup of the wine of wrath out of my hand, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink it. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And they will drink and stagger and act like madmen because of the sword that I am sending among them.”</p>
<p id="p846" data-pid="846" class="p846 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So I took the cup out of the hand of Jehovah and made all the nations to whom Jehovah sent me drink: <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> starting with Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, her kings and her princes, to make them a ruin, an object of horror, something to whistle at and a curse, as it is today; <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> then Pharʹaoh king of Egypt and his servants, his princes, and all his people, <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and all their mixed populations; all the kings of the land of Uz; all the kings of the land of the Phi·lisʹtines, Ashʹke·lon, Gazʹa, Ekʹron, and those remaining of Ashʹdod; <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Eʹdom, Moʹab, and the Amʹmon·ites; <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> all the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Siʹdon, and the kings of the island in the sea; <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Deʹdan, Teʹma, Buz, and all those with hair clipped at the temples; <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> all the kings of the Arabians and all the kings of the mixed populations who reside in the wilderness; <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> all the kings of Zimʹri, all the kings of Eʹlam, and all the kings of the Medes; <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> and all the kings of the north near and far, one after the other, and all the other kingdoms of the earth that are on the surface of the ground; and the king of Sheʹshach<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> will drink after them.</p>
<p id="p847" data-pid="847" class="p847 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “And you must say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “Drink and get drunk and vomit and fall so that you cannot get up because of the sword that I am sending among you.”’ <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And if they refuse to take the cup out of your hand to drink, say to them, ‘This is what Jehovah <span id="page1073" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1073" data-before-text="1073"></span>of armies says: “You must drink it! <span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For look! if I am bringing calamity first on the city that bears my name, should you go unpunished?”’</p>
<p id="p848" data-pid="848" class="p848 sb">“‘You will not go unpunished, for I am calling for a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth,’ declares Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p849" data-pid="849" class="p849 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “And you are to prophesy all these words to them and say to them,</p><p data-pid="849" class="p849 sz">‘From on high Jehovah will roar,</p><p data-pid="849" class="p849 sz">And from his holy dwelling he will make his voice heard.</p>
<p id="p850" data-pid="850" class="p850 sz">He will roar loudly against his abiding place.</p>
<p id="p851" data-pid="851" class="p851 sz">Shouting like those treading the winepress,</p><p data-pid="851" class="p851 sz">He will sing triumphantly against all the inhabitants of the earth.’</p>
<p id="p852" data-pid="852" class="p852 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> ‘A noise will resound to the ends of the earth,</p><p data-pid="852" class="p852 sz">For Jehovah has a controversy with the nations.</p>
<p id="p853" data-pid="853" class="p853 sz">He will personally pass judgment on all humans.<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a></p>
<p id="p854" data-pid="854" class="p854 sz">And he will put the wicked to the sword,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p855" data-pid="855" class="p855 sl"><span id="pos106494"></span><span id="chapter25_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p856" data-pid="856" class="p856 sz">‘Look! A calamity is spreading from nation to nation,</p><p data-pid="856" class="p856 sz">And a great tempest will be unleashed from the remotest parts of the earth.</p>
<p id="p857" data-pid="857" class="p857 sb"><span id="pos106675"></span><span id="chapter25_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “‘And those slain by Jehovah in that day will be from one end of the earth clear to the other end of the earth. They will not be mourned, nor will they be gathered up or buried. They will become like manure on the surface of the ground.’</p>
<p id="p858" data-pid="858" class="p858 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Wail, you shepherds, and cry out!</p>
<p id="p859" data-pid="859" class="p859 sz">Wallow about, you majestic ones of the flock,</p><p data-pid="859" class="p859 sz">Because the time of your slaughter and your dispersion has come,</p><p data-pid="859" class="p859 sz">And you will fall like a precious vessel!</p>
<p id="p860" data-pid="860" class="p860 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The shepherds have no place to flee,</p><p data-pid="860" class="p860 sz">And there is no escape for the majestic ones of the flock.</p>
<p id="p861" data-pid="861" class="p861 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Listen! The outcry of the shepherds</p><p data-pid="861" class="p861 sz">And the wailing of the majestic ones of the flock,</p><p data-pid="861" class="p861 sz">For Jehovah is devastating their pasture.</p>
<p id="p862" data-pid="862" class="p862 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And the peaceful dwelling places have been made lifeless</p><p data-pid="862" class="p862 sz">Because of the burning anger of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p863" data-pid="863" class="p863 sl"><span id="chapter25_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> He has left his lair just like a young lion,<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a></p><p data-pid="863" class="p863 sz">For their land has become an object of horror</p><p data-pid="863" class="p863 sz">Because of the cruel sword</p><p data-pid="863" class="p863 sz">And because of his burning anger.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote215"><p id="p1792" data-pid="1792"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource215">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:1</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote216"><p id="p1793" data-pid="1793"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource216">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:2</span></a> Or “to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote217"><p id="p1794" data-pid="1794"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource217">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:3</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and speaking.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote218"><p id="p1795" data-pid="1795"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource218">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:4</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and sending.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p id="p1796" data-pid="1796"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:9</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p id="p1797" data-pid="1797"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:12</span></a> Or “punish.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p id="p1798" data-pid="1798"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:26</span></a> This appears to be a cryptographic name for Babel (Babylon).</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p1799" data-pid="1799"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:31</span></a> Lit., “all flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p1800" data-pid="1800"><a href="1001061128-split25.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 25:38</span></a> Or “a maned young lion.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
