<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_9.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="pos26744"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>He then called out in my ears with a loud voice, saying: “Summon those who will bring punishment on the city, each one with his weapon for destruction in his hand!”</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I saw six men coming from the direction of the upper gate that faces north, each with his weapon for smashing in his hand; and there was one man among them clothed in linen, with a secretary’s inkhorn<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> at his waist, and they came in and stood beside the copper altar.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then the glory of the God of Israel rose from where it had rested above the cherubs and moved to the threshold of the doorway of the house, and he began calling out to the man who was clothed in linen, at whose waist was the secretary’s inkhorn. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah said to him: “Go through the city, through Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who are sighing and groaning over all the detestable things that are being done in the city.”</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And to the others he said in my hearing: “Go through the city after him and strike. Do not let your eye feel sorry, and do not feel any compassion. <span id="pos27796"></span><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Old man, young man, virgin, little child, and women you should kill off completely. But do not go near to any man on whom there is the mark. You should start from my sanctuary.” So they started with the elders who were in front of the house. <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Defile the house and fill the courtyards with the slain. Go!” So they went out and struck down people in the city.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> While they were striking them down, I alone was left, and I fell facedown and cried out: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah! Are you going to destroy all the remaining ones of Israel while you pour out your rage on Jerusalem?”</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So he said to me: “The error of the house of Israel and Judah is very, very great. The land is filled with bloodshed, and the city is full of corruption. For they say, ‘Jehovah has left the land, and Jehovah is not seeing.’ <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But as for me, my eye will not feel sorry; nor will I show compassion. The consequences of their way I will bring down on their own head.”</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then I saw the man clothed in linen with the inkhorn at his waist bringing back word, saying: “I have done just as you have commanded me.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p649" data-pid="649"><a href="1001061130-split9.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 9:2</span></a> Or “a scribe’s ink holder.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
