<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061142"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_6.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="pos10282"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>Then I looked up again and saw four chariots coming from between two mountains, and the mountains were of copper. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The first chariot had red horses, and the second chariot, black horses. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The third chariot had white horses, and the fourth chariot, speckled and dappled horses.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I asked the angel who was speaking with me: “What are these, my lord?”</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The angel answered me: “These are the four spirits of the heavens that are going out after having taken their station before the Lord of the whole earth. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The one<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> with the black horses is going out to the land of the north; the white ones are going out beyond the sea; and the speckled ones are going out to the land of the south. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the dappled ones were eager to go out to walk about through the earth.” Then he said: “Go, walk about through the earth.” And they began walking about through the earth.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He then called out to me and said: “See, those going out to the land of the north have caused the spirit of Jehovah to rest in the land of the north.”</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="pos11319"></span><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Take from Helʹdai, To·biʹjah, and Je·daʹiah what they brought from the people in exile; and on that day, you must go to the house of Jo·siʹah the son of Zeph·a·niʹah along with these who have come from Babylon. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You should take silver and gold and make a crown<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> and put it on the head of Joshua son of Je·hozʹa·dak, the high priest. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And say to him,</p><p data-pid="52" class="p52 sb">“‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “Here is the man whose name is Sprout. He will sprout from his own place, and he will build the temple of Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He is the one who will build the temple of Jehovah, and he is the one who will assume the majesty. He will sit down on his throne and rule, and he will also be a priest on his throne, and there will be a peaceable agreement between the two.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the crown<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> will serve as <span id="page1291" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1291" data-before-text="1291"></span>a memorial<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> for Heʹlem, To·biʹjah, Je·daʹiah, and Hen the son of Zeph·a·niʹah, in the temple of Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And those who are far away will come and take part in building the temple of Jehovah.” And you will have to know that Jehovah of armies has sent me to you. And it will occur—if you do not fail to listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p176" data-pid="176"><a href="1001061142-split6.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 6:6</span></a> That is, the chariot.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p177" data-pid="177"><a href="1001061142-split6.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 6:11</span></a> Or “a grand crown.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p178" data-pid="178"><a href="1001061142-split6.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 6:13</span></a> That is, between his roles as ruler and priest.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p179" data-pid="179"><a href="1001061142-split6.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 6:14</span></a> Or “the grand crown.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p180" data-pid="180"><a href="1001061142-split6.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 6:14</span></a> Or “reminder.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
