<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_13.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos40929"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Aʹbram then went up out of Egypt to the Negʹeb, he and his wife and all that he had, together with Lot. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Aʹbram was very rich in livestock, silver, and gold. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He camped in one place after another as he traveled from the Negʹeb to Bethʹel, until he arrived at the place where his tent had been between <span id="page57" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="57" data-before-text="57"></span>Bethʹel and Aʹi, <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> to the place where he had previously built an altar. There Aʹbram called on the name of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="pos41365"></span><span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now Lot, who was traveling with Aʹbram, also owned sheep, cattle, and tents. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So the land did not allow for all of them to stay in the same place; their goods had become so many that they could no longer dwell together. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> As a result, a quarrel arose between the herders of Aʹbram’s livestock and the herders of Lot’s livestock. (At that time the Caʹnaan·ites and the Perʹiz·zites were dwelling in the land.) <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Aʹbram said to Lot: “Please, there should be no quarreling between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Is not the whole land available to you? Please, separate from me. If you go to the left, then I will go to the right; but if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.” <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Lot raised his eyes and saw that the whole district of the Jordan was a well-watered region (before Jehovah destroyed Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah), like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt, as far as Zoʹar. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Lot chose for himself the whole district of the Jordan, and Lot moved his camp to the east. So they separated from each other. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Aʹbram lived in the land of Caʹnaan, but Lot lived among the cities of the district. Finally he set up his tent near Sodʹom. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now the men of Sodʹom were wicked, gross sinners against Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos42683"></span><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Aʹbram, after Lot had separated from him: “Raise your eyes, please, and look from the place where you are, to the north and south, east and west, <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> because all the land that you see, I will give to you and your offspring<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> as a lasting possession. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And I will make your offspring<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> like the dust particles of the earth, so that if anyone could count the dust particles of the earth, then your offspring<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> could be counted. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Get up, travel through the length and breadth of the land, for to you I am going to give it.” <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Aʹbram continued to live in tents. Later he came and dwelled among the big trees of Mamʹre, which are in Hebʹron, and there he built an altar to Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p559" data-pid="559"><a href="1001061105-split13.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 13:15</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p560" data-pid="560"><a href="1001061105-split13.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 13:16</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p561" data-pid="561"><a href="1001061105-split13.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 13:16</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
