<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">28</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_28.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p331" data-pid="331" class="p331 sb"><span id="pos137401"></span><span id="chapter28"></span><span id="chapter28_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>28</strong> </span>Jehovah next said to Moses: <span id="chapter28_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Command the Israelites and tell them, ‘You should take care that you present to me my offering, my bread. My offerings by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> aroma to me must be made at their appointed times.’</p>
<p id="p332" data-pid="332" class="p332 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “And say to them, ‘This is the offering made by fire that you will present to Jehovah: two sound year-old male lambs a day as a burnt offering regularly. <span id="chapter28_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The one male lamb you will offer in the morning, and the other male lamb you will offer at twilight,<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> <span id="chapter28_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> together with a tenth of an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> of beaten oil as a grain offering. <span id="chapter28_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> It is a regular burnt offering, which was established at Mount Siʹnai as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> aroma, an offering made by fire to Jehovah, <span id="chapter28_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> along with its drink offering, a fourth of a hin for each male lamb. Pour out the alcoholic drink in the holy place as a drink offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter28_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And you will offer the other male lamb at twilight.<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> With the same grain offering as that made in the morning and with its same drink offering, you will present it as an offering made by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> aroma to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p333" data-pid="333" class="p333 sb"><span id="pos138516"></span><span id="chapter28_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘However, on the Sabbath day, the offering should be two sound year-old male lambs and two tenths of an eʹphah measure of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, together with its drink offering. <span id="chapter28_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This is the burnt offering for the Sabbath, along with the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p334" data-pid="334" class="p334 sb"><span id="pos138831"></span><span id="chapter28_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘At the start of each month<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> you will present as a burnt offering to Jehovah two young bulls, one ram, and seven sound male lambs each a year old, <span id="chapter28_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and three tenth measures of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for each bull and two tenth measures of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for the one ram, <span id="page260" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="260" data-before-text="260"></span><span id="chapter28_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and a tenth measure of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for each male lamb, as a burnt offering, a pleasing<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a> aroma, an offering made by fire to Jehovah. <span id="chapter28_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And their drink offerings should be half a hin of wine for a bull and a third of a hin for the ram and a fourth of a hin for a male lamb. This is the monthly burnt offering each month throughout the year. <span id="chapter28_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Also, one young goat should be offered as a sin offering to Jehovah in addition to the regular burnt offering together with its drink offering.</p>
<p id="p335" data-pid="335" class="p335 sb"><span id="pos139698"></span><span id="chapter28_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘In the first month, on the 14th day of the month, will be Jehovah’s Passover. <span id="chapter28_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And on the 15th day of this month, there will be a festival. Unleavened bread will be eaten for seven days. <span id="chapter28_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> On the first day there will be a holy convention. You must not do any hard work. <span id="chapter28_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And you will present as a burnt offering made by fire to Jehovah two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old. You should offer sound animals. <span id="chapter28_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You should offer them with their grain offerings of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth measures for a bull and two tenth measures for the ram. <span id="chapter28_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You will offer a tenth measure respectively for each male lamb of the seven male lambs, <span id="chapter28_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> as well as one goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you. <span id="chapter28_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Aside from the morning burnt offering, which is for the regular burnt offering, you will offer these. <span id="chapter28_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You will offer these in the same manner each day for seven days as food,<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> an offering made by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> aroma to Jehovah. It should be offered along with the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. <span id="chapter28_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> On the seventh day you should hold a holy convention. You must not do any hard work.</p>
<p id="p336" data-pid="336" class="p336 sb"><span id="pos140886"></span><span id="chapter28_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘On the day of the first ripe fruits, when you present a new grain offering to Jehovah, you should hold a holy convention in your feast of weeks. You must not do any hard work. <span id="chapter28_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> You will present as a burnt offering for a pleasing<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> aroma to Jehovah two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs each a year old, <span id="chapter28_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and as their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth measures for each bull, two tenth measures for the one ram, <span id="chapter28_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> a tenth measure respectively for each male lamb of the seven male lambs, <span id="chapter28_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> as well as one young goat to make atonement for you. <span id="chapter28_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> You will offer them in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering. They should be sound animals, along with their drink offerings.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p id="p596" data-pid="596"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:2</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p id="p597" data-pid="597"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:4</span></a> Lit., “between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p598" data-pid="598"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:5</span></a> A tenth of an ephah equaled 2.2 L (2 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p599" data-pid="599"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:5</span></a> A hin equaled 3.67 L (7.75 pt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p600" data-pid="600"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:6</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p601" data-pid="601"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:8</span></a> Lit., “between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p602" data-pid="602"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:8</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p603" data-pid="603"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:11</span></a> Lit., “of your months.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p604" data-pid="604"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:13</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p605" data-pid="605"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:24</span></a> Lit., “bread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p606" data-pid="606"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:24</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p607" data-pid="607"><a href="1001061108-split28.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 28:27</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
