<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_18.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos78759"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and say to them, ‘I am Jehovah your God. <span id="pos78880"></span><span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must not behave as they do in the land of Egypt, where you were dwelling, and you must not do what they do in the land of Caʹnaan, where I am bringing you. And you must not walk in their statutes. <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You should carry out my judicial decisions, and you should keep my statutes and walk in them. I am Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You must keep my statutes and my judicial decisions; anyone who does so will live by means of them. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="pos79327"></span><span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘No man among you should approach any of his close relatives to have sexual relations.<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You must not have sexual relations with your father, and you must not have sexual relations with your mother. She is your mother, and you must not have sexual relations with her.</p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your father’s wife. It is exposing your father to shame.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a></p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your sister, either the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, whether she is born in the same household or born outside of it.</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with the daughter of your son or the daughter of your daughter, because they are your own nakedness.</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with the daughter of your father’s wife, the offspring of your father, because she is your sister.</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your father’s sister. She is your father’s blood relative.</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your mother’s sister, because she is your mother’s blood relative.</p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘You must not expose your father’s brother to shame<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> by having sexual relations with his wife. She is your aunt.</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your daughter-in-law. She is your son’s wife, and you must not have relations with her.</p>
<p id="p165" data-pid="165" class="p165 sb"><span id="page197" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="197" data-before-text="197"></span><span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with your brother’s wife, because it is exposing your brother to shame.<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a></p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual relations with a woman and her daughter. You must not take the daughter of her son and the daughter of her daughter in order to have relations. They are her close relatives; it is an obscene act.<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a></p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘You must not take a woman in addition to her sister as a rival wife and have sexual relations with her while her sister is alive.</p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="pos81181"></span><span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘You must not approach a woman during her menstrual impurity to have sexual relations with her.</p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “‘You must not have sexual intercourse with the wife of your fellow man,<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> making yourself unclean.</p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘You must not allow any of your offspring to be offered<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> to Moʹlech. You must not profane the name of your God in that way. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="pos81539"></span><span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “‘You must not lie down with a male in the same way that you lie down with a woman. It is a detestable act.</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="pos81655"></span><span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘A man must not have sexual intercourse with an animal to become unclean by it; nor should a woman offer herself to an animal to have intercourse with it. It is a violation of what is natural.</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="pos81856"></span><span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “‘Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, for it is by all these things that the nations that I am driving out from before you have made themselves unclean. <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Therefore, the land is unclean, and I will bring punishment on it for its error, and the land will vomit its inhabitants out. <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But you yourselves must keep my statutes and my judicial decisions, and you must not do any of these detestable things, whether a native or a foreigner who is residing among you. <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For all these detestable things were done by the men who lived in the land before you, and now the land is unclean. <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then the land will not have to vomit you out for defiling it in the same way that it will vomit out the nations that were before you. <span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> If anyone does any of these detestable things, all those<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> doing them must be cut off<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> from among their people. <span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> You must keep your obligation to me by not practicing any of the detestable customs that were carried on before you, so that you do not make yourselves unclean by them. I am Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:6</span></a> Lit., “to uncover nakedness,” here and in subsequent occurrences.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:8</span></a> Lit., “It is your father’s nakedness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:14</span></a> Lit., “expose the nakedness of your father’s brother.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:16</span></a> Lit., “it is your brother’s nakedness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:17</span></a> Or “shameful conduct; lewdness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:20</span></a> Or “your neighbor; your associate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:21</span></a> Or “devoted; sacrificed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:29</span></a> Or “the souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061107-split18.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 18:29</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
