<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_18.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos103677"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Then he went on to tell them an illustration about the need for them always to pray and not to give up, <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> saying: “In a certain city there was a judge who had no fear of God and no respect for man. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> There was also a widow in that city who kept going to him and saying, ‘See that I get justice from my legal opponent.’ <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Well, for a while he was unwilling, but afterward he said to himself, ‘Although I do not fear God or respect any man, <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> because this widow keeps making me trouble, I will see that she gets justice so that she will not keep coming and wearing me out with her demand.’”<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the Lord said: “Hear what the judge, although unrighteous, said! <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Certainly, then, will not God cause justice to be done for his chosen ones who cry out to him day and night, while he is patient toward them? <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I tell you, he will cause justice to be done to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of man arrives, will he really find this faith<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> on the earth?”</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="pos104660"></span><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He also told this illustration to some who trusted in their own righteousness and who considered others as nothing: <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The Pharisee stood and began to pray these things to himself, ‘O God, I thank you that I am not like everyone else—extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers—or even like this tax collector. <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> I fast twice a week; I give the tenth of all things I acquire.’ <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But the tax collector, standing at a distance, was not willing even to raise his eyes heavenward but kept beating his chest, saying, ‘O God, be gracious to me,<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> a sinner.’ <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I tell you, this man went down to his home and was proved more righteous than that Pharisee. Because everyone who exalts himself will be humiliated, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted.”</p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="pos105528"></span><span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now people were also bringing him their infants for him to touch them, but on seeing this, the disciples began to reprimand them. <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> However, Jesus called the infants to him, saying: “Let the young children come to me, and do not try to stop them, for the Kingdom of God belongs to such ones. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a young child will by no means enter into it.”</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="pos105958"></span><span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And one of the rulers questioned him, saying: “Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit everlasting life?” <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Why do you call me good? Nobody is good except one, God. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and your mother.’” <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then he said: “All of these I have kept from youth on.” <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> After <span id="page1412" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1412" data-before-text="1412"></span>hearing that, Jesus said to him, “There is still one thing lacking about you: Sell all the things you have and distribute the proceeds to the poor, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come be my follower.” <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When he heard this, he became deeply grieved, for he was very rich.</p>
<p id="p165" data-pid="165" class="p165 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Jesus looked at him and said: “How difficult it will be for those having money to make their way into the Kingdom of God! <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It is easier, in fact, for a camel to get through the eye of a sewing needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God.” <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Those who heard this said: “Who possibly can be saved?” <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> He said: “The things impossible with men are possible with God.” <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But Peter said: “Look! We have left what was ours and followed you.” <span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He said to them: “Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children for the sake of the Kingdom of God <span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> who will not get many times more in this period of time, and in the coming system of things,<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> everlasting life.”</p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="pos107446"></span><span id="chapter18_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then he took the Twelve aside and said to them: “Look! We are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things written by means of the prophets about the Son of man will be accomplished.<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For instance, he will be handed over to men of the nations and will be mocked and treated insolently and spat on. <span id="chapter18_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And after scourging him, they will kill him, but on the third day he will rise.” <span id="chapter18_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> However, they did not get the meaning of any of these things, for these words were hidden from them, and they did not understand the things said.</p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="pos108002"></span><span id="chapter18_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Now as Jesus was getting near to Jerʹi·cho, a blind man was sitting beside the road begging. <span id="chapter18_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Because he heard a crowd passing by, he began to inquire what was going on. <span id="chapter18_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They reported to him: “Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ is passing by!” <span id="chapter18_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> At that he cried out: “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!” <span id="chapter18_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And those who were in front began rebuking him, telling him to keep quiet, but all the more he kept shouting: “Son of David, have mercy on me!” <span id="chapter18_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Then Jesus stopped and commanded that the man be brought to him. After he came near, Jesus asked him: <span id="chapter18_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> “What do you want me to do for you?” He said: “Lord, let me recover my sight.” <span id="chapter18_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> So Jesus said to him: “Recover your sight; your faith has made you well.” <span id="chapter18_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And instantly he recovered his sight, and he began to follow him, glorifying God. Also, at seeing it, all the people gave praise to God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p396" data-pid="396"><a href="1001061146-split18.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 18:5</span></a> Or “and pummeling me to a finish.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p397" data-pid="397"><a href="1001061146-split18.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 18:8</span></a> Or “this kind of faith.” Lit., “the faith.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p398" data-pid="398"><a href="1001061146-split18.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 18:13</span></a> Or “have mercy on me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p399" data-pid="399"><a href="1001061146-split18.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 18:30</span></a> Or “the coming age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061146-split18.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 18:31</span></a> Or “completed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
