<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_14.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos37557"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Then I saw, and look! the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who have his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I heard a sound coming out of heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; and the sound that I heard was like singers who accompany themselves by playing on their harps. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And they are singing what seems to be a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders, and no one was able to master that song except the 144,000, who have been bought from the earth. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> These are the ones who did not defile themselves with women; in fact, they are virgins. These are the ones who keep following the Lamb no matter where he goes. These were bought from among mankind as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb, <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and no deceit was found in their mouths; they are without blemish.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="pos38457"></span><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And I saw another angel flying in midheaven,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> and he had everlasting good news to declare to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation and tribe and tongue<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> and people. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He was saying in a loud voice: “Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of judgment by him has arrived, so worship the One who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and the springs<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> of water.”</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Another, a second angel, followed, saying: “She has fallen! Babylon the Great has fallen, she who made all the nations drink of the wine of the passion<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> of her sexual immorality!”<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a></p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Another angel, a third, followed them, saying in a loud voice: “If anyone worships the wild beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> he will also drink of the wine of the anger of God that is poured out undiluted into the cup of His wrath, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the sight of the holy angels and in the sight of the Lamb. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever, and day and night they have no rest, those who worship the wild beast and its image and whoever <span id="page1653" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1653" data-before-text="1653"></span>receives the mark of its name. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Here is where it calls for endurance on the part of the holy ones, those who keep the commandments of God and hold fast to the faith of Jesus.”</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos39775"></span><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And I heard a voice out of heaven say, “Write: Happy are the dead who die in union with the Lord from this time onward. Yes, says the spirit, let them rest from their labors, for the things they did go right<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> with them.”</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="pos40004"></span><span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then I saw, and look! a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was someone like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Another angel emerged from the temple sanctuary, calling with a loud voice to the one seated on the cloud: “Put your sickle in and reap, because the hour has come to reap, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.” <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And the one seated on the cloud thrust his sickle into the earth, and the earth was reaped.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And still another angel emerged from the temple sanctuary that is in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And still another angel emerged from the altar, and he had authority over the fire. And he called out with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, saying: “Put your sharp sickle in and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for its grapes have become ripe.” <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the earth, and he hurled it into the great winepress of God’s anger. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress as high up as the bridles of the horses for a distance of 1,600 stadia.<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p220" data-pid="220"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:6</span></a> Or “in midair; overhead.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p221" data-pid="221"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:6</span></a> Or “language.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p222" data-pid="222"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:7</span></a> Or “fountains.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p223" data-pid="223"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:8</span></a> Or “anger.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p224" data-pid="224"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:8</span></a> Greek, <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p225" data-pid="225"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:13</span></a> Or “along.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p226" data-pid="226"><a href="1001061170-split14.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 14:20</span></a> About 296 km (184 mi). A stadium equaled 185 m (606.95 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
