<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061120"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav16.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav16_12.xhtml">1 - 47</a></p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos48374"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>These were the priests and the Levites who went up with Ze·rubʹba·bel the son of She·alʹti·el, and Jeshʹu·a: Se·raiʹah, Jeremiah, Ezʹra, <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Am·a·riʹah, Malʹluch, Hatʹtush, <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Shec·a·niʹah, Reʹhum, Merʹe·moth, <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Idʹdo, Ginʹne·thoi, A·biʹjah, <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Mijʹa·min, Ma·a·diʹah, Bilʹgah, <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> She·maiʹah, Joiʹa·rib, Je·daʹiah, <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Salʹlu, Aʹmok, Hil·kiʹah, and Je·daʹiah. These were the heads of the priests and their brothers in the days of Jeshʹu·a.</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The Levites were Jeshʹu·a, Binʹnu·i, Kadʹmi·el, She·re·biʹah, Judah, and Mat·ta·niʹah, who led the songs of thanksgiving along with his brothers. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And Bak·bu·kiʹah and Unʹni their brothers stood opposite them for guard duties.<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jeshʹu·a <span id="page684" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="684" data-before-text="684"></span>became father to Joiʹa·kim, and Joiʹa·kim became father to E·liʹa·shib, and E·liʹa·shib to Joiʹa·da. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And Joiʹa·da became father to Jonʹa·than, and Jonʹa·than became father to Jadʹdu·a.</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> In the days of Joiʹa·kim, these were the priests, the heads of the paternal houses: for Se·raiʹah, Me·raiʹah; for Jeremiah, Han·a·niʹah; <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> for Ezʹra, Me·shulʹlam; for Am·a·riʹah, Je·ho·haʹnan; <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> for Malʹlu·chi, Jonʹa·than; for Sheb·a·niʹah, Joseph; <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> for Haʹrim, Adʹna; for Me·raʹioth, Helʹkai; <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for Idʹdo, Zech·a·riʹah; for Ginʹne·thon, Me·shulʹlam; <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> for A·biʹjah, Zichʹri; for Mi·niʹa·min, . . .  ;<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> for Mo·a·diʹah, Pilʹtai; <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> for Bilʹgah, Sham·muʹa; for She·maiʹah, Je·honʹa·than; <span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> for Joiʹa·rib, Mat·teʹnai; for Je·daʹiah, Uzʹzi; <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> for Sal·laʹi, Kalʹlai; for Aʹmok, Eʹber; <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> for Hil·kiʹah, Hash·a·biʹah; for Je·daʹiah, Ne·thanʹel.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The heads of the paternal houses of the Levites in the days of E·liʹa·shib, Joiʹa·da, Jo·haʹnan, and Jadʹdu·a were recorded, as were the priests, down to the kingship of Da·riʹus the Persian.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The Levites who were heads of the paternal houses were recorded in the book of the history of the times, down to the days of Jo·haʹnan the son of E·liʹa·shib. <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The heads of the Levites were Hash·a·biʹah, She·re·biʹah, and Jeshʹu·a the son of Kadʹmi·el, and their brothers stood opposite them to offer praise and give thanks according to the instructions of David the man of the true God, guard group corresponding to guard group. <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Mat·ta·niʹah, Bak·bu·kiʹah, O·ba·diʹah, Me·shulʹlam, Talʹmon, and Akʹkub were standing guard as gatekeepers, guarding the storerooms by the gates. <span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> These served in the days of Joiʹa·kim the son of Jeshʹu·a the son of Joʹza·dak and in the days of Ne·he·miʹah the governor and Ezʹra the priest and copyist.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a></p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="pos50942"></span><span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> At the inauguration of the walls of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites and brought them to Jerusalem from all the places they lived to celebrate the inauguration with rejoicing, with songs of thanksgiving, and with cymbals, stringed instruments, and harps. <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And the sons of the singers<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> gathered together from the district,<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> from all around Jerusalem, from the settlements of the Ne·tophʹa·thites, <span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> from Beth-gilʹgal, and from the fields of Geʹba and Azʹma·veth, for the singers had built settlements for themselves all around Jerusalem. <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people, the gates, and the wall.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then I brought the princes of Judah up on top of the wall. Further, I appointed two large thanksgiving choirs and processions, and the one walked to the right on the wall toward the Gate of the Ash Heaps. <span id="chapter12_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Ho·shaiʹah and half of the princes of Judah walked behind them, <span id="chapter12_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> along with Az·a·riʹah, Ezʹra, Me·shulʹlam, <span id="chapter12_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Judah, Benjamin, She·maiʹah, and Jeremiah. <span id="chapter12_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> With them were some of the sons of the priests with the trumpets: Zech·a·riʹah son of Jonʹa·than son of She·maiʹah son of Mat·ta·niʹah son of Mi·caiʹah son of Zacʹcur son of Aʹsaph, <span id="chapter12_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> and his brothers She·maiʹah, Azʹar·el, Milʹa·lai, Gilʹa·lai, Maʹai, Ne·thanʹel, Judah, and Ha·naʹni, with the musical instruments of David the <span id="page685" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="685" data-before-text="685"></span>man of the true God; and Ezʹra the copyist<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> went before them. <span id="chapter12_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> At the Fountain Gate they went straight ahead up the Stairway of the City of David by the ascent of the wall above the House of David and on to the Water Gate to the east.</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> The other thanksgiving choir walked in the opposite direction,<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> and I followed it with half of the people, on the wall up over the Tower of the Ovens and on to the Broad Wall <span id="chapter12_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> and up over the Gate of Eʹphra·im and on to the Gate of the Old City and on to the Fish Gate, the Tower of Ha·nanʹel, the Tower of Meʹah, and on to the Sheep Gate; and they came to a halt at the Gate of the Guard.</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> At length the two thanksgiving choirs stood before the house of the true God; so did I and half of the deputy rulers with me, <span id="chapter12_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> and the priests E·liʹa·kim, Ma·a·seiʹah, Mi·niʹa·min, Mi·caiʹah, Eli·o·eʹnai, Zech·a·riʹah, and Han·a·niʹah, with the trumpets, <span id="chapter12_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> and Ma·a·seiʹah, She·maiʹah, El·e·aʹzar, Uzʹzi, Je·ho·haʹnan, Mal·chiʹjah, Eʹlam, and Eʹzer. And the singers sang loudly under the oversight of Iz·ra·hiʹah.</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> On that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced, for the true God made them rejoice with great joy. The women and the children also rejoiced, so that the rejoicing of Jerusalem could be heard far away.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="pos53654"></span><span id="chapter12_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> On that day men were appointed over the storehouses for the contributions, the firstfruits, and the tenths.<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> Into them they were to gather from the fields of the cities the portions required by the Law for the priests and the Levites, for there was rejoicing in Judah because of the priests and the Levites who were ministering. <span id="chapter12_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> And they began taking care of the duties of their God and the obligation of the purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the instructions of David and his son Solʹo·mon. <span id="chapter12_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> For long ago in the days of David and Aʹsaph, there were directors<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> for the singers and for the songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. <span id="chapter12_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> And during the days of Ze·rubʹba·bel and during the days of Ne·he·miʹah, all Israel gave portions to the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the daily need. They also set aside the portion for the Levites, and the Levites set aside the portion for the descendants of Aaron.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:9</span></a> Or possibly, “during the service.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:17</span></a> The Hebrew text evidently omits a name here.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:26</span></a> Or “scribe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:28</span></a> Or “And the trained singers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:28</span></a> That is, the district around the Jordan.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:36</span></a> Or “scribe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:38</span></a> Or “in front.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:44</span></a> Or “tithes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061120-split12.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 12:46</span></a> Lit., “heads.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
