<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_3.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos5144"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>“‘If his offering is a communion sacrifice<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> and if he is presenting it from the herd, whether a male or a female, he should present a sound animal before Jehovah. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He is to lay his hand on the head of his offering, and it will be slaughtered at the entrance of the tent of meeting; and Aaron’s sons, the priests, will sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He will present part of the communion sacrifice as an offering made by fire to Jehovah: the fat that covers the intestines, all the fat that surrounds the intestines, <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and the two kidneys with the fat on them that is near the loins. He will also remove the appendage of the liver along with the kidneys. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Aaron’s sons will make it smoke on the altar on top of the burnt offering that is placed on the wood that is over the fire; it is an offering made by fire as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> aroma to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘If his offering is from the flock for a communion sacrifice to Jehovah, he will present a sound male or a female animal. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> If he is presenting a young ram as his offering, then he will present it before Jehovah. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He will lay his hand on the head of his offering, and it will be slaughtered in front of the tent of meeting. Aaron’s sons will sprinkle its blood on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He will present the fat from the communion sacrifice as an offering made by fire to Jehovah. He will remove the entire fat tail near the backbone, the fat that covers the intestines, all the fat that surrounds the intestines, <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and the two kidneys with the fat on them that is near the loins. He will also remove the appendage of the liver along with the kidneys. <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And the priest will make it smoke on the altar as food,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> an offering made by fire to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘If his offering is a goat, then he will present it before Jehovah. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He will lay his hand on its head, and it will be slaughtered before the tent of meeting, and Aaron’s sons must sprinkle its blood on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The part he will present as his offering made by fire to Jehovah is the fat that covers the intestines, all the fat that surrounds the intestines, <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and the two kidneys with the fat on <span id="page174" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="174" data-before-text="174"></span>them that is near the loins. He will also remove the appendage of the liver along with the kidneys. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The priest will make them smoke on the altar as food,<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> an offering made by fire for a pleasing<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> aroma. All the fat belongs to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos7559"></span><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘It is a lasting statute for your generations, in all your dwelling places: You must not eat any fat or any blood at all.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061107-split3.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 3:1</span></a> Or “a sacrifice of peace offerings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061107-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 3:5</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061107-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 3:11</span></a> Lit., “bread,” that is, as God’s share of the communion sacrifice.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061107-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 3:16</span></a> Lit., “bread,” that is, as God’s share of the communion sacrifice.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061107-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 3:16</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
