<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_7.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos23109"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>“Stop judging that you may not be judged; <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> for with the judgment you are judging, you will be judged, and with the measure that you are measuring out, they will measure out to you. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Why, then, do you look at the straw in your brother’s eye but do not notice the rafter in your own eye? <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Allow me to remove the straw from your eye,’ when look! a rafter is in your own eye? <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Hypocrite! First remove the rafter from your own eye, and then you will see clearly how to remove the straw from your brother’s eye.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Do not give what is holy to dogs nor throw your pearls before swine, so that they may never trample them under their feet and turn around and rip you open.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="pos23833"></span><span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Keep on asking, and it will be given you; keep on seeking, and you will find; keep on knocking, and it will be opened to you; <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> for everyone asking receives, and everyone seeking finds, and to everyone knocking, it will be opened. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Indeed, which one of you, if his son asks for bread, will hand him a stone? <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Or if he asks for a fish, he will not hand him a serpent, will he? <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Therefore, if you, although being wicked, know how to give <span id="page1314" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1314" data-before-text="1314"></span>good gifts to your children, how much more so will your Father who is in the heavens give good things to those asking him!</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos24421"></span><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “All things, therefore, that you want men to do to you, you also must do to them. This, in fact, is what the Law and the Prophets mean.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="pos24566"></span><span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Go in through the narrow gate, because broad is the gate and spacious is the road leading off into destruction, and many are going in through it; <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> whereas narrow is the gate and cramped the road leading off into life, and few are finding it.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos24821"></span><span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Be on the watch for the false prophets who come to you in sheep’s covering, but inside they are ravenous wolves. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> By their fruits you will recognize them. Never do people gather grapes from thorns or figs from thistles, do they? <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Likewise, every good tree produces fine fruit, but every rotten tree produces worthless fruit. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> A good tree cannot bear worthless fruit, nor can a rotten tree produce fine fruit. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Every tree not producing fine fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Really, then, by their fruits you will recognize those men.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Not everyone saying to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the Kingdom of the heavens, but only the one doing the will of my Father who is in the heavens will. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Many will say to me in that day: ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and expel demons in your name, and perform many powerful works in your name?’ <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And then I will declare to them: ‘I never knew you! Get away from me, you workers of lawlessness!’</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos25848"></span><span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Therefore, everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does them will be like a discreet man who built his house on the rock. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and lashed against that house, but it did not cave in, for it had been founded on the rock. <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Furthermore, everyone hearing these sayings of mine and not doing them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And the rain poured down and the floods came and the winds blew and struck against that house, and it caved in, and its collapse was great.”</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="pos26433"></span><span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When Jesus finished these sayings, the effect was that the crowds were astounded at his way of teaching, <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> for he was teaching them as a person having authority, and not as their scribes.</p>
</body>
</html>
