<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_6.xhtml">1 - 71</a></p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos25225"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>After this Jesus set out across the Sea of Galʹi·lee, or Ti·beʹri·as. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And a large crowd kept following him, because they were observing the miraculous signs he was performing in healing the sick. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Jesus went up on a mountain and sat down there with his disciples. <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now the Passover, the festival of the Jews, was near. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When Jesus raised his eyes and saw that a large crowd was coming to him, he said to Philip: “Where will we buy bread for these people to eat?” <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, he was saying this to test him, for he knew what he was about to do. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Philip answered him: “Two hundred de·narʹi·i<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> worth of bread is not enough for each of them to get even a little.” <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to him: <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Here is a little boy who has five barley loaves and two small fish. But what are these among so many?”</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jesus said: “Have the people sit down.” As there was a lot of grass in that place, the men sat down there, about 5,000 in number. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jesus took the bread, and after giving thanks, he distributed it to those who were sitting there; he did likewise with the small fish, and they had as much as they wanted. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But when they had eaten their fill, he said to his disciples: “Gather together the fragments left over, so that nothing is wasted.” <span id="page1434" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1434" data-before-text="1434"></span><span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So they gathered them together and filled 12 baskets with fragments left over by those who had eaten from the five barley loaves.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When the people saw the sign he performed, they began to say: “This really is the Prophet who was to come into the world.” <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and seize him to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain all alone.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos26947"></span><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When evening fell, his disciples went down to the sea, <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and boarding a boat, they set out across the sea for Ca·perʹna·um. By now it had grown dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Also, the sea was getting rough because a strong wind was blowing. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, when they had rowed about three or four miles,<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> they saw Jesus walking on the sea and getting near the boat, and they became fearful. <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But he said to them: “It is I; do not be afraid!” <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then they were willing to take him into the boat, and right away the boat arrived at the land to which they had been heading.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="pos27564"></span><span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The next day the crowd that had stayed on the other side of the sea saw that there was no boat there. A small one had been there, but Jesus had not boarded that boat with his disciples, for his disciples had left by themselves. <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Boats from Ti·beʹri·as, however, arrived near the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. <span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So when the crowd saw that neither Jesus nor his disciples were there, they boarded their boats and came to Ca·perʹna·um to look for Jesus.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When they found him across the sea, they said to him: “Rabbi, when did you get here?” <span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jesus answered them: “Most truly I say to you, you are looking for me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate from the loaves and were satisfied. <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for everlasting life, which the Son of man will give you; for on this one the Father, God himself, has put his seal of approval.”</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So they said to him: “What must we do to carry out the works of God?” <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to them: “This is the work of God, that you exercise faith in the one whom he sent.” <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then they said to him: “What are you performing as a sign, so that we may see it and believe you? What work are you doing? <span id="chapter6_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Our forefathers ate the manna in the wilderness, just as it is written: ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’” <span id="chapter6_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Jesus then said to them: “Most truly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. <span id="chapter6_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> For the bread of God is the one who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” <span id="chapter6_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> So they said to him: “Lord, always give us this bread.”</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will not get hungry at all, and whoever exercises faith in me will never get thirsty at all. <span id="chapter6_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But as I said to you, you have even seen me and yet do not believe. <span id="chapter6_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> All those whom the Father gives me will come to me, and I will never drive away the one who comes to me; <span id="chapter6_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> for I have come down from heaven to do, not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. <span id="chapter6_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose none out of all those whom he <span id="page1435" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1435" data-before-text="1435"></span>has given me, but that I should resurrect them on the last day. <span id="chapter6_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who recognizes the Son and exercises faith in him should have everlasting life, and I will resurrect him on the last day.”</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Then the Jews began to murmur about him because he had said: “I am the bread that came down from heaven.” <span id="chapter6_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And they began saying: “Is this not Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, ‘I have come down from heaven’?” <span id="chapter6_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> In response Jesus said to them: “Stop murmuring among yourselves. <span id="chapter6_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him, and I will resurrect him on the last day. <span id="chapter6_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> It is written in the Prophets: ‘They will all be taught by Jehovah.’<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> Everyone who has listened to the Father and has learned comes to me. <span id="chapter6_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Not that any man has seen the Father, except the one who is from God; this one has seen the Father. <span id="chapter6_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Most truly I say to you, whoever believes has everlasting life.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> “I am the bread of life. <span id="chapter6_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Your forefathers ate the manna in the wilderness and yet they died. <span id="chapter6_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that anyone may eat of it and not die. <span id="chapter6_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread he will live forever; and for a fact, the bread that I will give is my flesh in behalf of the life of the world.”</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying: “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?” <span id="chapter6_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> So Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourselves. <span id="chapter6_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has everlasting life, and I will resurrect him on the last day; <span id="chapter6_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> for my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. <span id="chapter6_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood remains in union with me, and I in union with him. <span id="chapter6_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Just as the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father, so also the one who feeds on me will live because of me. <span id="chapter6_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> This is the bread that came down from heaven. It is not as when your forefathers ate and yet died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.” <span id="chapter6_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> He said these things as he was teaching in a synagogue<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> in Ca·perʹna·um.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos32186"></span><span id="chapter6_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> When they heard this, many of his disciples said: “This speech is shocking; who can listen to it?” <span id="chapter6_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: “Does this stumble you? <span id="chapter6_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> What, therefore, if you should see the Son of man ascending to where he was before? <span id="chapter6_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> It is the spirit that is life-giving; the flesh is of no use at all. The sayings that I have spoken to you are spirit and are life. <span id="chapter6_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> But there are some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning those who did not believe and the one who would betray him. <span id="chapter6_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> He went on to say: “This is why I have said to you, no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.”</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> Because of this, many of his disciples went off to the things behind and would no longer walk with him. <span id="chapter6_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> So Jesus said to the Twelve: “You do not want to go also, do you?” <span id="chapter6_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> Simon Peter answered him: “Lord, <span id="page1436" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1436" data-before-text="1436"></span>whom shall we go away to? You have sayings of everlasting life. <span id="chapter6_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> We have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God.” <span id="chapter6_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> Jesus answered them: “I chose you twelve, did I not? Yet one of you is a slanderer.”<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> He was, in fact, speaking of Judas the son of Simon Is·carʹi·ot, for this one was going to betray him, although he was one of the Twelve.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p179" data-pid="179"><a href="1001061147-split6.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 6:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p180" data-pid="180"><a href="1001061147-split6.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 6:19</span></a> About five or six km. Lit., “about 25 or 30 stadia.” See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p181" data-pid="181"><a href="1001061147-split6.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 6:45</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p182" data-pid="182"><a href="1001061147-split6.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 6:59</span></a> Or possibly, “public assembly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p183" data-pid="183"><a href="1001061147-split6.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 6:70</span></a> Or “a devil.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
