<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_13.xhtml">1 - 52</a></p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos60071"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Now in Antioch there were prophets and teachers in the local congregation: Barʹna·bas, Symʹe·on who was called Niʹger, Lucius of Cy·reʹne, Manʹa·en who was educated with Herod the district ruler, and Saul. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> As they were ministering<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> to Jehovah<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> and fasting, the holy spirit said: “Set aside for me Barʹna·bas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.” <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then after fasting and praying, they laid their hands on them and sent them off.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="page1480" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1480" data-before-text="1480"></span><span id="pos60527"></span><span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So these men, sent out by the holy spirit, went down to Se·leuʹcia, and from there they sailed away to Cyʹprus. <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When they arrived in Salʹa·mis, they began proclaiming the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had John as an attendant.<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a></p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paʹphos, they met up with a Jewish man named Bar-Jeʹsus, who was a sorcerer and a false prophet. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He was with the proconsul<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. Calling Barʹna·bas and Saul to him, this man was eager to hear the word of God. <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But Elʹy·mas the sorcerer (for that is how his name is translated) began opposing them, trying to turn the proconsul away from the faith. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then Saul, also called Paul, becoming filled with holy spirit, looked at him intently <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and said: “O man full of every sort of fraud and every sort of villainy, you son of the Devil, you enemy of everything righteous, will you not quit distorting the right ways of Jehovah?<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Look! Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> hand is upon you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sunlight for a time.” Instantly a thick mist and darkness fell on him, and he went around trying to find someone to lead him by the hand. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the proconsul, on seeing what had happened, became a believer, for he was astounded at the teaching of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a></p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="pos61862"></span><span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now Paul and his companions put out to sea from Paʹphos and arrived at Perga in Pam·phylʹi·a. But John left them and returned to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pi·sidʹi·a. And going into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, they took a seat. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> After the public reading of the Law and the Prophets, the presiding officers of the synagogue sent word to them, saying: “Men, brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it.” <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand, he said:</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb">“Men, Israelites and you others who fear God, listen. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The God of this people Israel chose our forefathers, and he exalted the people while they lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt and brought them out of it with an uplifted arm. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And for a period of about 40 years, he put up with them in the wilderness. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> After destroying seven nations in the land of Caʹnaan, he assigned their land as an inheritance. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> All of that was during about 450 years.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb">“After this he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But afterward they demanded a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for 40 years. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> After removing him, he raised up for them David as king, about whom he bore witness and said: ‘I have found David the son of Jesʹse a man agreeable to my heart; he will do all the things I desire.’ <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> According to his promise, from the offspring<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> of this man, God has brought to Israel a savior, Jesus. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Before the arrival of that one, John had preached publicly to all the people of Israel baptism in symbol of repentance. <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But as John was finishing his course, he would say: ‘What do you suppose I am? I am not he. But look! One is coming after me the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="page1481" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1481" data-before-text="1481"></span><span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “Men, brothers, you descendants of Abraham’s family and those others among you who fear God, the word of this salvation has been sent to us. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For the inhabitants of Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize this one, but when acting as judges, they fulfilled the things spoken by the Prophets, which are read aloud every sabbath. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Even though they found no cause for death, they demanded of Pilate to have him executed. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And when they had accomplished all the things written about him, they took him down from the stake<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> and laid him in a tomb.<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But God raised him up from the dead, <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> and for many days he became visible to those who had gone with him from Galʹi·lee up to Jerusalem. These are now his witnesses to the people.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “So we are declaring to you the good news about the promise made to the forefathers. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> God has completely fulfilled it to us, their children, by resurrecting Jesus; just as it is written in the second psalm: ‘You are my son; today I have become your father.’ <span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And the fact that He resurrected him from the dead never again to return to corruption, He has stated in this way: ‘I will give you the expressions of loyal love promised to David, which are faithful.’<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> So it also says in another psalm: ‘You will not allow your loyal one to see corruption.’ <span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> David, on the one hand, rendered service to God<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> in his own generation, fell asleep in death, was laid with his forefathers, and did see corruption. <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> On the other hand, the one whom God raised up did not see corruption.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> “Let it therefore be known to you, brothers, that through this one a forgiveness of sins is being proclaimed to you, <span id="chapter13_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> and that from all the things from which you could not be declared guiltless by means of the Law of Moses, everyone who believes is declared guiltless by means of this one. <span id="chapter13_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Therefore, watch out that what is said in the Prophets does not come upon you: <span id="chapter13_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> ‘Look at it, you scorners, and be amazed, and perish, for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will never believe even if anyone relates it to you in detail.’”</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos65885"></span><span id="chapter13_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Now when they were going out, the people pleaded with them to speak about these matters on the following Sabbath. <span id="chapter13_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> So after the synagogue assembly was dismissed, many of the Jews and the proselytes who worshipped God followed Paul and Barʹna·bas, who, as they spoke to them, urged them to remain in the undeserved kindness of God.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> The next Sabbath nearly all the city gathered together to hear the word of Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> When the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began blasphemously contradicting the things Paul was saying. <span id="chapter13_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Then Paul and Barʹna·bas boldly said to them: “It was necessary for the word of God to be spoken first to you. Since you are rejecting it and do not judge yourselves worthy of everlasting life, look! we turn to the nations. <span id="chapter13_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> For Jehovah<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> has commanded us in these words: ‘I have appointed you as a light of nations, for you to be <span id="page1482" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1482" data-before-text="1482"></span>a salvation to the ends of the earth.’”</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> When those of the nations heard this, they began to rejoice and to glorify the word of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> and all those who were rightly disposed for everlasting life became believers. <span id="chapter13_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Furthermore, the word of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> was being spread throughout the whole country. <span id="chapter13_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> But the Jews incited the prominent women who were God-fearing and the principal men of the city, and they stirred up persecution against Paul and Barʹna·bas and threw them outside their boundaries. <span id="chapter13_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> So they shook the dust off their feet against them and went to I·coʹni·um. <span id="chapter13_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And the disciples continued to be filled with joy and holy spirit.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:2</span></a> Or “publicly ministering.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:2</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p333" data-pid="333"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:5</span></a> Or “assistant.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p334" data-pid="334"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:7</span></a> The Roman governor of a province. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos83880">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:11</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:23</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:29</span></a> Or “tree.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:29</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p341" data-pid="341"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:34</span></a> Or “trustworthy; reliable.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p342" data-pid="342"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:36</span></a> Or “served the will of God.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p343" data-pid="343"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:44</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p344" data-pid="344"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:47</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p345" data-pid="345"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:48</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p346" data-pid="346"><a href="1001061148-split13.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 13:49</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
