<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_17.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="pos74786"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>“You must not sacrifice to Jehovah your God a bull or a sheep that has a defect or anything wrong with it, for it would be detestable to Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos74946"></span><span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Suppose a man or a woman is found among you, in any of your cities that Jehovah your God is giving you, who is practicing what is bad in the eyes of Jehovah your God and violating his covenant, <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and he goes astray and worships other gods and he bows down to them or to the sun or the moon or all the army of the heavens, a thing that I have not commanded. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When it is reported to you or you hear about it, then you should investigate the matter thoroughly. If it is confirmed to be true that this detestable thing has been done in Israel, <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> you must bring the man or the woman who has done this evil thing out to the city gates, and the man or the woman must be stoned to death. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> On the testimony<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> of two witnesses or of three witnesses the one who is to die should be put to death. He must not be put to death on the testimony of one witness. <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The hand of the witnesses should be the first to come against him to put him to death, and the hand of all the people afterward. You must remove what is bad from your midst.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="pos75990"></span><span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “If a case arises in one of your cities that is too difficult for you to judge, whether it is a case involving bloodshed or a legal claim that has been raised or a violent deed that has been committed or other matters of dispute, you should rise up and go to the place that Jehovah your God chooses. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Go to the Levitical priests and to the judge serving in those days, and make your inquiry, and they will hand down the decision to you. <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then you must act according to the decision that they hand down to you from the place that Jehovah chooses. Be careful to do according to all that they instruct you. <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You must act according to the law that they show you and according to the decision that they declare to you. Do not deviate from the decision that they will hand down to you, either to the right or to the left. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The man who acts presumptuously by not listening to the priest who is ministering to Jehovah your God or to the judge must die. You must remove what is bad from Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> All the people will then hear and become afraid, and they will not act presumptuously anymore.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="pos77110"></span><span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “When you enter the land that Jehovah your God is giving you and you have taken possession of it and are living in it, and you say, ‘Let me appoint a king over myself like all the nations around me,’ <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> in that case, you should without fail appoint a king whom Jehovah your God chooses. You should appoint a king from among your <span id="page299" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="299" data-before-text="299"></span>brothers. You are forbidden to appoint over yourself a foreigner who is not your brother. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> However, he should not acquire many horses for himself or make the people go back to Egypt in order to obtain more horses, since Jehovah told you, ‘You must never go back again by this way.’ <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Neither should he take many wives for himself, so that his heart may not go astray; nor should he acquire vast amounts of silver and gold for himself. <span id="pos77906"></span><span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When he takes his seat on the throne of his kingdom, he must write for himself in a book<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> a copy of this Law, taken from the one kept by the Levitical priests.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “It is to remain with him, and he must read from it all the days of his life, so that he may learn to fear Jehovah his God and observe all the words of this Law and these regulations by carrying them out. <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Thus his heart will not exalt itself above his brothers, and he will not deviate from the commandment, either to the right or to the left, so that he may remain a long time over his kingdom, he and his sons in the midst of Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p505" data-pid="505"><a href="1001061109-split17.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 17:6</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p506" data-pid="506"><a href="1001061109-split17.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 17:18</span></a> Or “a scroll.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
