<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Daniel 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061131"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Daniel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav27.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav27_9.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="pos45701"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>In the first year of Da·riʹus the son of A·has·u·eʹrus—a descendant of the Medes who had been made king over the kingdom of the Chal·deʹans— <span id="pos45846"></span><span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, discerned by the books<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> the number of years mentioned in the word of Jehovah to Jeremiah the prophet to fulfill the <span id="page1221" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1221" data-before-text="1221"></span>desolation of Jerusalem, namely, 70 years. <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So I turned my face to Jehovah the true God, entreating him in prayer, along with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I prayed to Jehovah my God and made confession and said:</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb">“O Jehovah the true God, the great and awe-inspiring One, who keeps his covenant and shows loyal love to those who love him and keep his commandments, <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled; and we have deviated from your commandments and your judgments. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, our forefathers, and all the people of the land. <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> To you, O Jehovah, belongs righteousness, but to us belongs shame<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> as is the case today, to the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel, those nearby and far away, in all the lands to which you dispersed them because they acted unfaithfully toward you.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “O Jehovah, to us belongs shame,<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> to our kings, our princes, and our forefathers, because we have sinned against you. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> To Jehovah our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him. <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> We have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah our God by following his laws that he set before us through his servants the prophets. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> All Israel has overstepped your Law and turned away by not obeying your voice, so that you poured out on us the curse and the sworn oath written about in the Law of Moses the servant of the true God, for we have sinned against Him. <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He has carried out his words that he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled over us,<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> by bringing great calamity on us; nothing has ever been done under the whole heavens such as what was done in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Just as it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us, yet we have not begged for the favor<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> of Jehovah our God by turning away from our error and by showing insight into your truth.<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a></p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “So Jehovah kept watchful and brought calamity on us, for Jehovah our God is righteous in all the works that he has done; yet we have not obeyed his voice.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Now, O Jehovah our God, the One who brought your people out of the land of Egypt by a mighty hand and made a name for yourself down to this day, we have sinned and acted wickedly. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> O Jehovah, according to all your righteous acts, please, may your anger and wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain; for because of our sins and the errors of our forefathers, Jerusalem and your people are an object of reproach to all those around us. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And now listen, O our God, to the prayer of your servant and to his entreaties, and cause your face to shine upon your sanctuary that is desolate, for your own sake, O Jehovah. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Incline your ear, O my God, and hear! Do open your eyes and see our desolate condition and the city that has been called by your name; for we are not entreating you because of our righteous acts but because of your great mercy. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> O Jehovah, do hear. O Jehovah, do forgive. O Jehovah, do <span id="page1222" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1222" data-before-text="1222"></span>pay attention and act! Do not delay, for your own sake, O my God, for your own name has been called upon your city and upon your people.”</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="pos49252"></span><span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> While I was still speaking and praying and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel and making my request for favor before Jehovah my God concerning the holy mountain of my God, <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> yes, while I was yet speaking in prayer, the man Gaʹbri·el, whom I had previously seen in the vision, came to me when I was extremely weary at about the time of the evening gift offering. <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And he gave me understanding, saying:</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb">“O Daniel, now I have come to give you insight and understanding. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When you began your entreaty the word went out, and I have come to report it to you, because you are someone very precious.<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> So consider the matter and understand the vision.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos49937"></span><span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “There are 70 weeks<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> that have been determined for your people and your holy city, in order to terminate the transgression, to finish off sin, to make atonement for error, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and the prophecy,<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> and to anoint the Holy of Holies.<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> <span id="pos50234"></span><span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> You should know and understand that from the issuing of the word to restore and to rebuild Jerusalem until Mes·siʹah<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> the Leader, there will be 7 weeks, also 62 weeks. She will be restored and rebuilt, with a public square and moat, but in times of distress.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos50506"></span><span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “And after the 62 weeks, Mes·siʹah will be cut off,<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> with nothing for himself.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb">“And the people of a leader who is coming will destroy the city and the holy place. And its end will be by the flood. And until the end there will be war; what is decided upon is desolations.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “And he will keep the covenant in force for the many for one week; and at the half of the week, he will cause sacrifice and gift offering to cease.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb">“And on the wing of disgusting things there will be the one causing desolation; and until an extermination, what was decided on will be poured out also on the one lying desolate.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:2</span></a> That is, the sacred books.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:7</span></a> Lit., “shame of face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:8</span></a> Lit., “shame of face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:12</span></a> Lit., “our judges who judged us.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:13</span></a> Or “softened the face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:13</span></a> Or “faithfulness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:23</span></a> Or “very desirable; highly esteemed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:24</span></a> That is, weeks of years.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:24</span></a> Lit., “prophet.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:24</span></a> Or “the Most Holy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:25</span></a> Or “the Anointed One.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061131-split9.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Dan. 9:26</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
