<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_23.xhtml">1 - 44</a></p>
<p id="p225" data-pid="225" class="p225 sb"><span id="pos100654"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>Jehovah continued speaking to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘The seasonal festivals of Jehovah that you should proclaim are holy conventions. These are my seasonal festivals:</p>
<p id="p226" data-pid="226" class="p226 sb"><span id="pos100865"></span><span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “‘Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a sabbath of complete rest, a holy convention. You may not do any sort of work. It is to be a sabbath to Jehovah wherever you dwell.</p>
<p id="p227" data-pid="227" class="p227 sb"><span id="pos101059"></span><span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “‘These are the seasonal festivals of Jehovah, holy conventions that you should proclaim at the times appointed for them: <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> In the first month, on the 14th day of the month, at twilight<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> is the Passover to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p228" data-pid="228" class="p228 sb"><span id="pos101281"></span><span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘On the 15th day of this month is the Festival of Unleavened Bread to Jehovah. Seven days you should eat unleavened bread. <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> On the first day, you <span id="page204" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="204" data-before-text="204"></span>will observe a holy convention. You should not do any hard work. <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But you are to present an offering made by fire to Jehovah for seven days. There will be a holy convention on the seventh day. You should not do any hard work.’”</p>
<p id="p229" data-pid="229" class="p229 sb"><span id="pos101670"></span><span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘When you eventually come into the land that I am giving you and you have reaped its harvest, you must bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest. <span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And he will wave the sheaf back and forth before Jehovah to gain approval for you. The priest should wave it on the day after the Sabbath. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> On the day you have the sheaf waved, you must offer a sound young ram in its first year, as a burnt offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Its grain offering will be two tenths of an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> of fine flour mixed with oil, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah, a pleasing<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> aroma. Its drink offering will be a fourth of a hin<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> of wine. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You must not eat any bread, roasted grain, or new grain until this day, until you bring the offering of your God. It is a lasting statute for all your generations wherever you dwell.</p>
<p id="p230" data-pid="230" class="p230 sb"><span id="pos102591"></span><span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘You are to count seven sabbaths from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you bring the sheaf of the wave offering. They should be complete weeks. <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> You will count off 50 days until the day after the seventh Sabbath, and then you should present a new grain offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> You should bring from your dwelling places two loaves as a wave offering. These should be made of two tenths of an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> of fine flour. They should be baked with leaven, as first ripe fruits to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And you should present along with the loaves seven sound male lambs, each a year old, and one young bull and two rams. They will serve as a burnt offering to Jehovah along with the corresponding grain offering and drink offerings, as an offering made by fire, of a pleasing<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> aroma to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And you must offer one young goat as a sin offering and two male lambs, each a year old, as a communion sacrifice. <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The priest will wave them back and forth along with the loaves of the first ripe fruits, as a wave offering before Jehovah, together with the two male lambs. They should serve as something holy to Jehovah for the priest. <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> On this day you will make a proclamation for a holy convention for yourselves. You may not do any hard work. It is a lasting statute in all your dwelling places for all your generations.</p>
<p id="p231" data-pid="231" class="p231 sb"><span id="pos103940"></span><span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you must not reap the edge of your field completely and you should not pick up what is left from your harvest. You should leave it for the poor<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> and for the foreign resident. I am Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<p id="p232" data-pid="232" class="p232 sb"><span id="pos104191"></span><span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Jehovah went on speaking to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites, ‘In the seventh month, on the first of the month, you should observe a complete rest, a memorial signaled by a trumpet blast, a holy convention. <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> You may not do any hard work, and you will present an offering made by fire to Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p233" data-pid="233" class="p233 sb"><span id="pos104510"></span><span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “However, <span id="page205" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="205" data-before-text="205"></span>on the tenth of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement. You should observe a holy convention, and you must afflict yourselves<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> and present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> You are not to do any sort of work on this particular day because it is a day of atonement to make atonement for you before Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Anyone<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> who will not afflict himself<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> on this day will be cut off<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> from his people. <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And I will destroy from among his people every person<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> who does any sort of work on this day. <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> You must not do any sort of work. It is a lasting statute for all your generations wherever you dwell. <span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> It is a sabbath of complete rest for you, and you will afflict yourselves<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> on the ninth of the month in the evening. You should observe your sabbath from evening to evening.”</p>
<p id="p234" data-pid="234" class="p234 sb"><span id="pos105387"></span><span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Jehovah continued speaking to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites, ‘On the 15th day of this seventh month is the Festival of Booths<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> for seven days to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> There is to be a holy convention on the first day, and you should not do any hard work. <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Seven days you must present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. On the eighth day, you should observe a holy convention, and you should present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a solemn assembly. You may not do any hard work.</p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “‘These are the seasonal festivals of Jehovah that you should proclaim as holy conventions for presenting an offering made by fire to Jehovah: the burnt offering and the grain offering of the sacrifice and the drink offerings according to the daily schedule. <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> These are in addition to what is offered on Jehovah’s sabbaths, and your gifts, your vow offerings, and your voluntary offerings, which you should give to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> However, on the 15th day of the seventh month, when you have gathered the produce of the land, you should celebrate the festival of Jehovah for seven days. On the first day is a complete rest and on the eighth day is a complete rest. <span id="chapter23_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> On the first day, you will take the fruit of majestic trees, the fronds of palm trees, the branches of leafy trees and poplars of the valley,<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> and you will rejoice before Jehovah your God for seven days. <span id="chapter23_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> You will celebrate it as a festival to Jehovah for seven days in the year. As a lasting statute during all your generations, you should celebrate it in the seventh month. <span id="chapter23_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> You should dwell in the booths for seven days. All the natives in Israel should dwell in the booths, <span id="chapter23_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> so that your future generations may know that it was in the booths that I made the Israelites dwell when I was bringing them out of the land of Egypt. I am Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> So Moses spoke of the seasonal festivals of Jehovah to the Israelites.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p444" data-pid="444"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:5</span></a> Lit., “between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p445" data-pid="445"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:13</span></a> Two tenths of an ephah equaled 4.4 L (4 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p446" data-pid="446"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:13</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p447" data-pid="447"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:13</span></a> A hin equaled 3.67 L (7.75 pt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:17</span></a> Two tenths of an ephah equaled 4.4 L (4 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:18</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:22</span></a> Or “afflicted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:27</span></a> Or “your souls.” To “afflict oneself” is generally understood to mean various forms of self-denial, including fasting.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:29</span></a> Or “Any soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:29</span></a> Or possibly, “not fast.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:29</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:30</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p456" data-pid="456"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:32</span></a> Or “your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p457" data-pid="457"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:34</span></a> Or “Temporary Shelters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p458" data-pid="458"><a href="1001061107-split23.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 23:40</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
