<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_22.xhtml">1 - 12</a></p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="page631" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="631" data-before-text="631"></span><span id="pos75622"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Then the inhabitants of Jerusalem made his youngest son A·ha·ziʹah king in his place, for the marauder band that came with the Arabs to the camp had killed all the older ones. So A·ha·ziʹah the son of Je·hoʹram began to reign as king of Judah. <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> A·ha·ziʹah was 22 years old when he became king, and he reigned for one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ath·a·liʹah the granddaughter<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> of Omʹri.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He too walked in the ways of the house of Aʹhab, for his mother became his adviser in acting wickedly. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And he kept doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, like the house of Aʹhab, for they became his advisers after the death of his father, to his destruction. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He followed their advice and went with Je·hoʹram the son of King Aʹhab of Israel to wage war against King Hazʹa·el of Syria at Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad, where the archers wounded Je·hoʹram. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He returned to Jezʹre·el to recover from the wounds that they had inflicted on him at Raʹmah when he fought against King Hazʹa·el of Syria.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb">A·ha·ziʹah<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> the son of Je·hoʹram the king of Judah went down to Jezʹre·el to see Je·hoʹram the son of Aʹhab, because he had been wounded.<span id="footnotesource152"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote152">*</a> <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But God brought about the downfall of A·ha·ziʹah by his coming to Je·hoʹram; and when he came, he went out with Je·hoʹram to meet Jeʹhu the grandson<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> of Nimʹshi, whom Jehovah had anointed to do away with<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> the house of Aʹhab. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When Jeʹhu began to execute judgment on the house of Aʹhab, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of A·ha·ziʹah’s brothers, ministers of A·ha·ziʹah, and he killed them. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then he looked for A·ha·ziʹah; they captured him where he was hiding in Sa·marʹi·a, and they brought him to Jeʹhu. Then they put him to death and buried him, for they said: “He is the grandson of Je·hoshʹa·phat, who searched for Jehovah with all his heart.” There was no one of the house of A·ha·ziʹah who had the power to rule the kingdom.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos77536"></span><span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When Ath·a·liʹah, A·ha·ziʹah’s mother, saw that her son had died, she rose up and destroyed the entire royal line<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> of the house of Judah. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> However, Je·ho·shabʹe·ath the daughter of the king took Je·hoʹash the son of A·ha·ziʹah and stole him away from among the sons of the king who were to be put to death, and she put him and his nurse in an inner bedroom. Je·ho·shabʹe·ath the daughter of King Je·hoʹram (she was the wife of Je·hoiʹa·da the priest and a sister of A·ha·ziʹah) managed to keep him concealed from Ath·a·liʹah, so that she did not put him to death. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He remained with them for six years, hidden at the house of the true God, while Ath·a·liʹah was ruling over the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:2</span></a> Lit., “daughter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:6</span></a> In some Hebrew manuscripts, “Azariah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote152"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource152">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:6</span></a> Or “he was sick.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:7</span></a> Lit., “son.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:7</span></a> Lit., “cut off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061118-split22.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:10</span></a> Lit., “all seed of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
