<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_22.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="pos86763"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “As for you, son of man, are you prepared to pronounce judgment on<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> the bloodguilty city and to make known to her all her detestable things? <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You are to say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “O city that sheds blood within herself, whose time is coming, who makes disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> to defile herself, <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> your bloodshed has made you guilty, and your disgusting idols have made you unclean. You have hastened the end of your days, and the end of your years has come. That is why <span id="page1162" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1162" data-before-text="1162"></span>I will make you an object of reproach to the nations and an object of mockery to all the lands. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The lands nearby and those far away from you will mock you, you whose name is unclean and who are filled with turmoil. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Look! Each of the chieftains of Israel among you uses his authority to shed blood. <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Within you they treat their father and mother with contempt. They defraud the foreign resident, and they mistreat the fatherless child<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> and the widow.”’”</p>
<p id="p198" data-pid="198" class="p198 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘My holy places you despise, and my sabbaths you profane. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Within you are slanderers intent on shedding blood. Within you they eat sacrifices on the mountains and carry on obscene conduct in your midst. <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Within you they dishonor their father’s bed,<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> and they violate a woman unclean in her menstruation. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Within you one man acts detestably with his neighbor’s wife, another defiles his own daughter-in-law with obscene conduct, and another violates his sister, the daughter of his own father. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Within you they take a bribe to shed blood. You lend on interest or for a profit,<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> and you extort money from your neighbors. Yes, you have entirely forgotten me,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p199" data-pid="199" class="p199 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘Look! I clap my hands in disgust at the dishonest gain you have made and over the acts of bloodshed in your midst. <span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Will your courage<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> endure and your hands remain strong in the days when I take action against you? I myself, Jehovah, have spoken, and I will take action. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you among the lands, and I will put an end to your uncleanness. <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And you will be dishonored before the nations, and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p200" data-pid="200" class="p200 sb"><span id="pos89036"></span><span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Son of man, the house of Israel has become like worthless dross to me. All of them are copper and tin and iron and lead in a furnace. They have become the dross of silver.</p>
<p id="p201" data-pid="201" class="p201 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because all of you have become like worthless dross, I am collecting you together inside Jerusalem. <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Just as silver and copper and iron and lead and tin are collected inside a furnace in order to blow fire upon them and melt them, so I will collect you together in my anger and in my rage, and I will blow upon you and make you melt. <span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I will bring you together and blow upon you with the fire of my fury, and you will be melted inside of her. <span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Just as silver is melted in a furnace, so you will be melted inside her; and you will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have poured out my rage on you.’”</p>
<p id="p202" data-pid="202" class="p202 sb"><span id="pos89960"></span><span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Son of man, say to her, ‘You are a land that will not be cleansed or rained on in the day of indignation. <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Her prophets have conspired within her, like a roaring lion tearing prey. They are devouring people.<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> They are seizing treasure and precious things. They have made many widows within her. <span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Her priests have violated my law, and they keep profaning my holy places. They make no <span id="page1163" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1163" data-before-text="1163"></span>distinction between what is holy and what is common, and they fail to make known what is unclean and what is clean, and they refuse to observe my sabbaths, and I am profaned among them. <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Her princes in her midst are like wolves tearing prey; they shed blood and kill people<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> to make dishonest gain. <span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But her prophets have plastered over their deeds with whitewash. They see false visions and give lying divination, and they say: “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says,” when Jehovah himself has not spoken. <span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The people of the land have defrauded and committed robbery, they have mistreated the needy and the poor, and they have defrauded the foreign resident and denied him justice.’</p>
<p id="p203" data-pid="203" class="p203 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “‘I was looking for a man from among them who would repair the stone wall or stand before me in the breach in behalf of the land, so that it would not be destroyed, but I found no one. <span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So I will pour out my indignation on them and exterminate them with the fire of my fury. I will bring the consequences of their way on their own head,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p753" data-pid="753"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:2</span></a> Lit., “will you judge, will you judge.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p754" data-pid="754"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:3</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p755" data-pid="755"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:7</span></a> Or “the orphan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p756" data-pid="756"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:10</span></a> Lit., “expose the nakedness of their father.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p757" data-pid="757"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:12</span></a> Or “or take usury.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p758" data-pid="758"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:14</span></a> Lit., “heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p759" data-pid="759"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:25</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p760" data-pid="760"><a href="1001061130-split22.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 22:27</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
