<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_7.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos31066"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>Now the Pharisees and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem gathered around him. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And they saw some of his disciples eat their meal with defiled hands, that is, unwashed ones.<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands up to the elbow, clinging to the tradition of the men of former times, <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and when they come from the market, they do not eat unless they wash themselves. There are many other traditions that they have received and cling to, such as baptisms of cups, pitchers, and copper vessels.) <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So these Pharisees and scribes asked him: “Why do your disciples not observe the tradition of the men of former times, but they eat their meal with defiled hands?” <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He said to them: “Isaiah aptly prophesied about you hypocrites, as it is written, ‘This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> It is in vain that they keep worshipping me, for they teach commands of men as doctrines.’ <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> You let go of the commandment of God and cling to the tradition of men.”</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Further, he said to them: “You skillfully disregard the commandment of God in order to keep your tradition. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For example, Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Let the one who speaks abusively of<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> his father or mother be put to death.’ <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But you say, ‘If a man says to his father or his mother: “Whatever I have that could benefit you is corban (that is, a gift dedicated to God),”’ <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> you no longer <span id="page1360" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1360" data-before-text="1360"></span>let him do a single thing for his father or his mother. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Thus you make the word of God invalid by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like this.” <span id="pos32760"></span><span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So calling the crowd to him again, he said to them: “Listen to me, all of you, and understand the meaning. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Nothing from outside a man that enters into him can defile him; but the things that come out of a man are the things that defile him.” <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> ——</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now when he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples began to question him about the illustration. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So he said to them: “Are you also without understanding like them? Are you not aware that nothing from outside that enters into a man can defile him, <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> since it enters, not into his heart, but into his stomach, and it passes out into the sewer?” Thus he declared all foods clean. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Further, he said: “That which comes out of a man is what defiles him. <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For from inside, out of the heart of men, come injurious reasonings: sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> thefts, murders, <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> acts of adultery, greed, acts of wickedness, deceit, brazen conduct,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> an envious eye, blasphemy, haughtiness, and unreasonableness. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> All these wicked things come from within and defile a man.”</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos33835"></span><span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He rose up from there and went into the region of Tyre and Siʹdon. There he entered into a house and did not want anyone to know it, but he could not escape notice. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Immediately, a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him and came and fell down at his feet. <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The woman was a Greek, a Sy·ro·phoe·niʹcian by nationality;<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> and she kept asking him to expel the demon from her daughter. <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But he said to her: “First let the children be satisfied, for it is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.” <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But she replied to him: “Yes, sir, and yet even the little dogs underneath the table eat of the crumbs of the little children.” <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> At that he said to her: “Because you said this, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.” <span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So she went away to her home and found the young child lying on the bed, and the demon was gone.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos34758"></span><span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> When Jesus returned from the region of Tyre, he went through Siʹdon to the Sea of Galʹi·lee, through the region of De·capʹo·lis.<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Here they brought him a deaf man with a speech impediment, and they pleaded with him to lay his hand on him. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And he took him aside privately, away from the crowd. Then he put his fingers into the man’s ears, and after spitting, he touched his tongue. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And looking up into heaven, he sighed deeply and said to him: <em>“Ephʹpha·tha,”</em> that is, “Be opened.” <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> At this his ears were opened, and his speech impediment was removed, and he began speaking normally. <span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> With that he ordered them not to tell anyone, but the more he would order them, the more they would proclaim it. <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Indeed, they were astounded beyond measure, and they said: “He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the speechless speak.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p155" data-pid="155"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:2</span></a> That is, not ceremonially cleansed.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p156" data-pid="156"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:10</span></a> Or “reviles.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p157" data-pid="157"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:21</span></a> Plural of the Greek <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:22</span></a> Or “shameless conduct.” Greek, <em>a·selʹgei·a.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos12475">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p160" data-pid="160"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:26</span></a> Or “by birth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p161" data-pid="161"><a href="1001061145-split7.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 7:31</span></a> Or “the Ten City Region.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
