<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_22.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="pos95921"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Tell Aaron and his sons that they should be careful how they handle<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> the holy things of the Israelites and not profane my holy name regarding the things they are sanctifying to me. I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Say to them, ‘Throughout your generations, any of your offspring who, while he is unclean, comes near to the holy things that the Israelites sanctify to Jehovah, that person<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> will be cut off<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> from before me. I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> No man of Aaron’s offspring who has leprosy or a discharge may eat of the holy things until he becomes clean, neither the man who touches someone who became unclean by a dead person,<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> nor a man who has a seminal emission, <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> nor a man who touches an unclean swarming creature or who touches a man who is unclean for any reason and who can make him unclean. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The person<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> who touches any of these will be unclean until the evening and may not eat any of the holy things, but he should bathe himself in water. <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When the sun has set, he will be clean, and afterward he may eat some of the holy things because it is his food. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Also, he should not eat any animal found dead or anything torn by wild animals and become unclean by it. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘They must keep their obligation to me, so that they may not incur sin because of it and have to die for it because they were profaning it. I am Jehovah, who is sanctifying them.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘No unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> may eat anything holy. No foreign guest of a priest or hired worker may eat anything holy. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But if a priest should purchase someone<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> with his own money, that person may share in eating it. Slaves born in his house may also share in eating his food. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> If the daughter of a priest should marry someone who is not a priest,<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> she may not eat of the contribution of the holy things. <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But if the daughter of a priest should become a widow or is divorced and she has no offspring and she returns to her father’s house as in her youth, she may eat some of her father’s food; but no unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> may eat it.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘Now if a man eats a holy thing by mistake, he must add a fifth of its value and give the holy offering to the priest. <span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So they should not profane <span id="page203" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="203" data-before-text="203"></span>the holy things of the Israelites that they contribute to Jehovah <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and cause them to incur punishment for their guilt because of eating their holy things; for I am Jehovah, who is sanctifying them.’”</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="pos98371"></span><span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Jehovah continued speaking to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Speak to Aaron and his sons and all the Israelites and say to them, ‘When an Israelite man or a foreign resident in Israel presents a burnt offering to Jehovah to fulfill his vows or to make a voluntary offering, <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> he should present a sound male from the herd, the young rams, or the goats, in order to gain approval. <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> You must not present anything with a defect, for it will not serve to gain approval for you.</p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘If a man presents a communion sacrifice to Jehovah to pay a vow or as a voluntary offering, it should be a sound animal from the herd or the flock, in order to gain approval. No defect at all should be in it. <span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> No offering should be blind, have a fracture, a cut, a wart, scabbiness, or ringworm; you must not present any of these to Jehovah or make such an offering on the altar for Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You may present a bull or a sheep with a limb that is too long or too short as a voluntary offering, but it will not be accepted with approval as a vow offering. <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You must not present to Jehovah one having the testicles damaged or crushed or pulled off or cut off, and you should not offer such animals in your land. <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And you must not present any of these from the hand of a foreigner as the bread of your God, for they are corrupted and defective. They will not be accepted with approval for you.’”</p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “When a bull or a young ram or a goat is born, it will continue with its mother for seven days, but from the eighth day forward it will be accepted with approval as an offering, an offering made by fire to Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> As for a bull or a sheep, you must not slaughter it and its young on the same day.</p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “If you sacrifice a thanksgiving sacrifice to Jehovah, you should sacrifice it to gain approval for yourselves. <span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> It should be eaten on that day. You must not leave any of it until morning. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “You must keep my commandments and carry them out. I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter22_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> You must not profane my holy name, and I must be sanctified in the midst of the Israelites. I am Jehovah, who is sanctifying you, <span id="chapter22_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> the one bringing you out of the land of Egypt to prove myself God to you. I am Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p id="p435" data-pid="435"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:2</span></a> Lit., “they should separate themselves from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p id="p436" data-pid="436"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:3</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p id="p437" data-pid="437"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:3</span></a> Or “put to death.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p438" data-pid="438"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:4</span></a> Or “by a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p439" data-pid="439"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:6</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p440" data-pid="440"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:10</span></a> Lit., “No stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p441" data-pid="441"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:11</span></a> Or “a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p442" data-pid="442"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:12</span></a> Or “marry a stranger.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p443" data-pid="443"><a href="1001061107-split22.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 22:13</span></a> Lit., “stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
