<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_1.xhtml">1 - 45</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1349" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1349" data-before-text="1349"></span><strong>ACCORDING TO MARK</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos69"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>The beginning of the good news about Jesus Christ, the Son of God: <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Just as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: “(Look! I am sending my messenger ahead of you,<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who will prepare your way.) <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> A voice of one crying out in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of Jehovah!<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Make his roads straight.’” <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> John the Baptizer was in the wilderness, preaching baptism in symbol of repentance for forgiveness of sins. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And all the territory of Ju·deʹa and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem were going out to him, and they were baptized<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> by him in the Jordan River, openly confessing their sins. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now John wore clothing of camel’s hair and a <span id="page1350" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1350" data-before-text="1350"></span>leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And he was preaching: “Someone stronger than I am is coming after me, the lace of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with holy spirit.”</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos1006"></span><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In the course of those days, Jesus came from Nazʹa·reth of Galʹi·lee and was baptized in the Jordan by John. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And immediately on coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens being parted and, like a dove, the spirit coming down upon him. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And a voice came out of the heavens: “You are my Son, the beloved; I have approved you.”</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos1355"></span><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And immediately the spirit impelled him to go into the wilderness. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So he continued in the wilderness for 40 days, being tempted by Satan. He was with the wild beasts, but the angels were ministering to him.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1578"></span><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now after John was arrested, Jesus went into Galʹi·lee, preaching the good news of God <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and saying: “The appointed time has been fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent, and have faith in the good news.”</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos1814"></span><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> While walking alongside the Sea of Galʹi·lee, he saw Simon and Simon’s brother Andrew casting their nets into the sea, for they were fishermen. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So Jesus said to them: “Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.”<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And at once they abandoned their nets and followed him. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> After going a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebʹe·dee and his brother John, while they were in their boat mending their nets, <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and without delay he called them. So they left their father Zebʹe·dee in the boat with the hired men and went off after him. <span id="pos2390"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And they went into Ca·perʹna·um.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb">As soon as the Sabbath began, he went into the synagogue and started to teach. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And they were astounded at his way of teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Just then there was a man in their synagogue who was under the power of an unclean spirit, and he shouted: <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “What have we to do with you, Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ? Did you come to destroy us? I know exactly who you are, the Holy One of God!” <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But Jesus rebuked it, saying: “Be silent, and come out of him!” <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And the unclean spirit, after throwing the man into a convulsion and yelling at the top of its voice, came out of him. <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Well, the people were all so astonished that they began to discuss it among themselves, saying: “What is this? A new teaching! He authoritatively orders even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.” <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So the report about him spread quickly in all directions throughout the entire region of Galʹi·lee.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3404"></span><span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> At that they left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon and Andrew with James and John. <span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now Simon’s mother-in-law was lying down sick with a fever, and they at once told him about her. <span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Going to her, he took her by the hand and raised her up. The fever left her, and she began ministering to them.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> After evening had fallen, when the sun had set, the people began bringing to him all who were ill and demon possessed; <span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> and the whole city was gathered right at the door. <span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> So he cured many who were ill <span id="page1351" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1351" data-before-text="1351"></span>with various sicknesses, and he expelled many demons, but he would not let the demons speak, for they knew him to be Christ.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos4084"></span><span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he got up and went outside and left for an isolated place, and there he began praying. <span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> However, Simon and those with him hunted him down <span id="chapter1_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and found him, and they said to him: “Everyone is looking for you.” <span id="chapter1_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But he said to them: “Let us go somewhere else, into the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for this is why I have come.” <span id="chapter1_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And he went, preaching in their synagogues throughout the whole of Galʹi·lee and expelling the demons.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos4611"></span><span id="chapter1_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> There also came to him a leper, pleading with him even on bended knee, saying to him: “If you just want to, you can make me clean.” <span id="chapter1_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> At that he was moved with pity, and he stretched out his hand and touched him, and said to him: “I want to! Be made clean.” <span id="chapter1_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Immediately the leprosy vanished from him, and he became clean. <span id="chapter1_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Then he gave him strict orders and at once sent him away, <span id="chapter1_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> saying to him: “See that you say nothing to anyone, but go show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing the things Moses directed, for a witness to them.” <span id="chapter1_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But after going away, the man started to proclaim it a great deal and to spread the account widely, so that Jesus was no longer able to enter openly into a city, but he stayed outside in isolated places. Yet they kept coming to him from all sides.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p120" data-pid="120"><a href="1001061145.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 1:2</span></a> Lit., “before your face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p121" data-pid="121"><a href="1001061145.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 1:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p122" data-pid="122"><a href="1001061145.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 1:5</span></a> Or “dipped; immersed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p123" data-pid="123"><a href="1001061145.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 1:17</span></a> Or “people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p124" data-pid="124"><a href="1001061145.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 1:34</span></a> Or possibly, “they knew who he was.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
