<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_25.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p201" data-pid="201" class="p201 sb"><span id="pos109175"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>“Then the Kingdom of the heavens may be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Five of them were foolish, and five were discreet.<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For the foolish took their lamps but took no oil with them, <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> whereas the discreet took oil in their flasks along with their lamps. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> While the bridegroom was delaying, they all became drowsy and fell asleep. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Right in the middle of the night there was a shout: ‘Here is the bridegroom! Go out to meet him.’ <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then all those virgins got up and put their lamps in order. <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The foolish said to the discreet, ‘Give us some of your oil, because our lamps are about to go out.’ <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The discreet answered, saying: ‘Perhaps there may not be enough for both us and you. Go instead to those who sell it, and buy some for yourselves.’ <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> While they were going off to buy it, the bridegroom came. The virgins who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Afterward, the rest of the virgins also came, saying, ‘Sir, Sir, open to us!’ <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> In answer he said, ‘I tell you the truth, I do not know you.’</p>
<p id="p202" data-pid="202" class="p202 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Keep on the watch, therefore, because you know neither the day nor the hour.</p>
<p id="p203" data-pid="203" class="p203 sb"><span id="pos110396"></span><span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “For it is just like a man about to travel abroad who summoned his slaves and entrusted his belongings to them. <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He gave five talents<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> to one, two to another, and one to still another, to each according to his own ability, and he went abroad. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Immediately the one who received <span id="page1341" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1341" data-before-text="1341"></span>the five talents went and did business with them and gained five more. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Likewise, the one who received the two gained two more. <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But the slave who received just one went off and dug in the ground and hid his master’s money.<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a></p>
<p id="p204" data-pid="204" class="p204 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “After a long time, the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So the one who had received the five talents came forward and brought five additional talents, saying, ‘Master, you entrusted five talents to me; see, I gained five talents more.’ <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> His master said to him: ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’ <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Next the one who had received the two talents came forward and said, ‘Master, you entrusted two talents to me; see, I gained two talents more.’ <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> His master said to him: ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’</p>
<p id="p205" data-pid="205" class="p205 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Finally the slave who had received the one talent came forward and said: ‘Master, I knew you to be a demanding man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not winnow. <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So I grew afraid and went and hid your talent in the ground. Here, you have what is yours.’ <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> In reply his master said to him: ‘Wicked and sluggish slave, you knew, did you, that I reaped where I did not sow and gathered where I did not winnow? <span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Well, then, you should have deposited my money<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> with the bankers, and on my coming I would have received it back with interest.</p>
<p id="p206" data-pid="206" class="p206 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “‘Therefore, take the talent away from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents. <span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. <span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And throw the good-for-nothing slave out into the darkness outside. There is where his weeping and the gnashing of his teeth will be.’</p>
<p id="p207" data-pid="207" class="p207 sb"><span id="pos112706"></span><span id="chapter25_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “When the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit down on his glorious throne. <span id="chapter25_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. <span id="chapter25_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And he will put the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left.</p>
<p id="p208" data-pid="208" class="p208 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> “Then the King will say to those on his right: ‘Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world. <span id="chapter25_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> For I became hungry and you gave me something to eat; I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you received me hospitably; <span id="chapter25_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> naked<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> and you clothed me. I fell sick and you looked after me. I was in prison and you visited me.’ <span id="chapter25_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Then the righteous ones will answer him with the words: ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? <span id="chapter25_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> When did we see you a stranger and receive you hospitably, or naked and clothe you? <span id="chapter25_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> When did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?’ <span id="chapter25_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> In reply the King will say to them, ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of <span id="page1342" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1342" data-before-text="1342"></span>the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’</p>
<p id="p209" data-pid="209" class="p209 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> “Then he will say to those on his left: ‘Go away from me, you who have been cursed, into the everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and his angels. <span id="chapter25_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> For I became hungry, but you gave me nothing to eat; and I was thirsty, but you gave me nothing to drink. <span id="chapter25_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> I was a stranger, but you did not receive me hospitably; naked, but you did not clothe me; sick and in prison, but you did not look after me.’ <span id="chapter25_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Then they too will answer with the words: ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to you?’ <span id="chapter25_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Then he will answer them, saying: ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to one of these least ones, you did not do it to me.’ <span id="chapter25_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> These will depart into everlasting cutting-off,<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> but the righteous ones into everlasting life.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p408" data-pid="408"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:2</span></a> Or “wise.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p409" data-pid="409"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:15</span></a> A Greek talent equaled 20.4 kg (654 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p410" data-pid="410"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:18</span></a> Lit., “silver.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p411" data-pid="411"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:27</span></a> Lit., “silver.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:36</span></a> Or “not sufficiently dressed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061144-split25.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 25:46</span></a> That is, from life. Lit., “lopping off; pruning.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
