<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">29</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_29.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p328" data-pid="328" class="p328 sb"><span id="pos119634"></span><span id="chapter29"></span><span id="chapter29_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>29</strong> </span>In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the 12th day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying: <span id="chapter29_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face toward Pharʹaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. <span id="chapter29_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Speak these words: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p329" data-pid="329" class="p329 sz">“Here I am against you, Pharʹaoh king of Egypt,</p><p data-pid="329" class="p329 sz">The great sea monster lying among the streams of his Nile,<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a></p><p data-pid="329" class="p329 sz">Who has said, ‘My Nile River belongs to me.</p>
<p id="p330" data-pid="330" class="p330 sz">I made it for myself.’</p>
<p id="p331" data-pid="331" class="p331 sl"><span id="chapter29_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But I will put hooks in your jaws and cause the fish of your Nile to cling to your scales.</p>
<p id="p332" data-pid="332" class="p332 sz">I will bring you up out of your Nile along with all the fish of the Nile that cling to your scales.</p>
<p id="p333" data-pid="333" class="p333 sl"><span id="chapter29_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> I will abandon you in the desert, you and all the fish of your Nile.</p>
<p id="p334" data-pid="334" class="p334 sz">You will fall on the open field, and you will not be gathered up nor be collected together.</p>
<p id="p335" data-pid="335" class="p335 sz">I will give you as food to the wild beasts of the earth and the birds of the sky.</p>
<p id="p336" data-pid="336" class="p336 sl"><span id="chapter29_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then all the inhabitants of Egypt will have to know that I am Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="336" class="p336 sz">For they were no more support to the house of Israel than a piece of straw.<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a></p>
<p id="p337" data-pid="337" class="p337 sl"><span id="chapter29_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When they grasped your hand, you were crushed,</p><p data-pid="337" class="p337 sz">And you caused them to tear their shoulder.</p>
<p id="p338" data-pid="338" class="p338 sz">When they supported themselves on you, you were broken,</p><p data-pid="338" class="p338 sz">And you caused their legs<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> to wobble.”</p>
<p id="p339" data-pid="339" class="p339 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am bringing a sword upon you, and I will cut off from you both man and beast. <span id="chapter29_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The land of Egypt will become a desolate and devastated place; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah, for you have<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> <span id="page1174" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1174" data-before-text="1174"></span>said, ‘The Nile River belongs to me; I am the one who made it.’ <span id="chapter29_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So I am against you and against your Nile, and I will make the land of Egypt devastated and dry, a desolate wasteland, from Migʹdol to Sy·eʹne to the boundary of E·thi·oʹpi·a. <span id="chapter29_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Neither man nor livestock will pass through it on foot, and it will not be inhabited for 40 years. <span id="chapter29_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> I will make the land of Egypt the most desolate of lands, and its cities will be the most desolate of cities for 40 years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands.”</p>
<p id="p340" data-pid="340" class="p340 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “After 40 years I will gather back the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered; <span id="chapter29_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will bring the Egyptian captives back to the land of Pathʹros, to the land of their origin, and there they will become an insignificant kingdom. <span id="chapter29_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Egypt will become lower than the other kingdoms and will no longer dominate the other nations, and I will make them so small that they will not be able to subdue other nations. <span id="chapter29_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> It will never again be a source of confidence for the house of Israel, but it will only remind them of their error in turning to the Egyptians for help. And they will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’”</p>
<p id="p341" data-pid="341" class="p341 sb"><span id="pos122502"></span><span id="chapter29_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Now in the 27th year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying: <span id="chapter29_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Son of man, King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> of Babylon made his army labor greatly against Tyre. Every head became bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare. But he and his army received no wages for the labor he expended on Tyre.</p>
<p id="p342" data-pid="342" class="p342 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says, ‘Here I am giving the land of Egypt to King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> of Babylon, and he will carry off its wealth and take much spoil and plunder from it; and it will become wages for his army.’</p>
<p id="p343" data-pid="343" class="p343 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “‘As compensation for his labor against her,<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> I will give him the land of Egypt because they acted for me,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p344" data-pid="344" class="p344 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “In that day I will cause a horn to sprout for the house of Israel,<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> and I will give you an opportunity to speak among them; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p815" data-pid="815"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:3</span></a> Here and below, “Nile” refers to the river and its irrigation canals.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p816" data-pid="816"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:6</span></a> Lit., “a reed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p817" data-pid="817"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:7</span></a> Lit., “hips.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p818" data-pid="818"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:9</span></a> Lit., “he has.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p819" data-pid="819"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:18</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p820" data-pid="820"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:19</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p821" data-pid="821"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:20</span></a> That is, against Tyre.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p822" data-pid="822"><a href="1001061130-split29.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 29:21</span></a> Or “endow the house of Israel with strength.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
