<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_19.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos53389"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>After this I heard what seemed to be a loud voice of a great crowd in heaven. They said: “Praise Jah!<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> The salvation and the glory and the power belong to our God, <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> because his judgments are true and righteous. For he has executed judgment on the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> and he has avenged the blood of his slaves that is on her hands.”<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And right away for the second time they said: “Praise Jah!<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> And the smoke from her goes on ascending forever and ever.”</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And the 24 elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God who sits on the throne and said: “Amen! Praise Jah!”<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a></p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Also, a voice came from the throne and said: “Be praising our God, all you his slaves, who fear him, the small ones and the great.”</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And I heard what sounded like a voice of a great crowd and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of heavy thunders. They said: “Praise Jah,<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> because Jehovah<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> our God, the Almighty, has begun to rule as king! <span id="pos54412"></span><span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Let us rejoice and be overjoyed and give him glory, because the marriage of the Lamb has arrived and his wife has prepared herself. <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Yes, it has been granted to her to be clothed with bright, clean, fine linen—for the fine linen stands for the righteous acts of the holy ones.”</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And he tells me, “Write: Happy are those invited to the evening meal of the Lamb’s marriage.” Also, he tells me: “These are the true sayings of God.” <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At that I fell down before his feet to worship him. But he tells me: “Be careful! Do not do that! I am only a fellow slave of you and of your brothers who have the work of witnessing concerning Jesus. Worship God! For the witness concerning Jesus is what inspires prophecy.”</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="pos55137"></span><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> I saw heaven opened, and look! a white horse. And the <span id="page1658" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1658" data-before-text="1658"></span>one seated on it is called Faithful and True, and he judges and carries on war in righteousness. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> His eyes are a fiery flame, and on his head are many diadems.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> He has a name written that no one knows but he himself, <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and he is clothed with an outer garment stained<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> with blood, and he is called by the name The Word of God. <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Also, the armies in heaven were following him on white horses, and they were clothed in white, clean, fine linen. <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And out of his mouth protrudes a sharp, long sword with which to strike the nations, and he will shepherd them with a rod of iron. Moreover, he treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> On his outer garment, yes, on his thigh, he has a name written, King of kings and Lord of lords.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="pos55990"></span><span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the birds that fly in midheaven:<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> “Come here, be gathered together to the great evening meal of God, <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of military commanders and the flesh of strong men and the flesh of horses and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all, of freemen as well as of slaves and of small ones and great.”</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos56435"></span><span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And I saw the wild beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to wage war against the one seated on the horse and against his army. <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the wild beast was caught, and along with it the false prophet that performed in front of it the signs with which he misled those who received the mark of the wild beast and those who worship its image. While still alive, they both were hurled into the fiery lake that burns with sulfur. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But the rest were killed off with the long sword that proceeded out of the mouth of the one seated on the horse. And all the birds were filled with their flesh.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:1</span></a> Or “Hallelujah!” “Jah” is a shortened form of the name Jehovah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:2</span></a> Greek, <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:2</span></a> Lit., “from her hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:3</span></a> Or “Hallelujah!” “Jah” is a shortened form of the name Jehovah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:4</span></a> Or “Hallelujah!” “Jah” is a shortened form of the name Jehovah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:6</span></a> Or “Hallelujah!” “Jah” is a shortened form of the name Jehovah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:12</span></a> Or “royal headbands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:13</span></a> Or possibly, “sprinkled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061170-split19.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 19:17</span></a> Or “in midair; overhead.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
