<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 38</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">38</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_38.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p454" data-pid="454" class="p454 sb"><span id="pos161553"></span><span id="chapter38"></span><span id="chapter38_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>38</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter38_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, set your face against Gog of the land of Maʹgog, the head chieftain<span id="footnotesource295"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote295">*</a> of Meʹshech and Tuʹbal, and prophesy against him. <span id="chapter38_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, O Gog, head chieftain<span id="footnotesource296"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote296">*</a> of Meʹshech and Tuʹbal. <span id="chapter38_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I will turn you around and put hooks in your jaws and bring you out with all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in splendor, a vast assembly with large shields and bucklers,<span id="footnotesource297"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote297">*</a> all of them wielding swords; <span id="chapter38_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Persia, E·thi·oʹpi·a, and Put are with them, all of them with buckler and helmet; <span id="chapter38_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Goʹmer and all its troops, the house of To·garʹmah from the remotest parts of the north, along with all its troops—many peoples are with you.</p>
<p id="p455" data-pid="455" class="p455 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘“Be ready, prepare yourselves, you with all your armies that are assembled with you, and you will be their commander.<span id="footnotesource298"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote298">*</a></p>
<p id="p456" data-pid="456" class="p456 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘“You will be given attention<span id="footnotesource299"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote299">*</a> after many days. In the final part of the years you will invade the land whose people have been restored from the ravages of the sword, collected together out of many peoples onto the mountains of Israel, which had long been lying devastated. The inhabitants of this land were restored from the peoples, and all of them dwell in security. <span id="chapter38_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> You will come against them like a storm, and you will cover the land like clouds, you and all your troops and many peoples with you.”’</p>
<p id="p457" data-pid="457" class="p457 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘In that day thoughts will come into your heart, and you will devise an evil plan. <span id="chapter38_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You will say: “I will invade the land of unprotected settlements.<span id="footnotesource300"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote300">*</a> I will come against <span id="page1188" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1188" data-before-text="1188"></span>those living in security, without disturbance, all of them living in settlements unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.” <span id="chapter38_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> It will be to take much spoil and plunder, to attack the devastated places that are now inhabited and a people regathered from the nations, who are accumulating wealth and property, those who are living in the center of the earth.</p>
<p id="p458" data-pid="458" class="p458 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘Sheʹba and Deʹdan, the merchants of Tarʹshish and all its warriors<span id="footnotesource301"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote301">*</a> will say to you: “Are you invading to get much spoil and plunder? Have you assembled your armies to carry off silver and gold, to take wealth and property, to seize a very great spoil?”’</p>
<p id="p459" data-pid="459" class="p459 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “So prophesy, son of man, and say to Gog, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “On that day when my people Israel are dwelling in security, will you not know it? <span id="chapter38_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You will come from your place, from the remotest parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great assembly, a vast army. <span id="chapter38_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Like clouds covering the land, you will come against my people Israel. In the final part of the days I will bring you against my land so that the nations may know me when I sanctify myself through you before their eyes, O Gog.”’</p>
<p id="p460" data-pid="460" class="p460 sb"><span id="pos164422"></span><span id="chapter38_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Are you not the same one I spoke about in the former days through my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied for many years that you would be brought against them?’</p>
<p id="p461" data-pid="461" class="p461 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘On that day, the day when Gog invades the land of Israel,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘my great rage will flare up. <span id="chapter38_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In my zeal, in the fire of my fury, I will speak; and in that day there will be a great earthquake in the land of Israel. <span id="chapter38_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Because of me the fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the wild beasts of the field, all the reptiles that creep on the ground, and all humans on the surface of the earth will tremble, and the mountains will be thrown down, and the cliffs will fall, and every wall will collapse to the ground.’</p>
<p id="p462" data-pid="462" class="p462 sb"><span id="chapter38_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘I will call for a sword against him on all my mountains,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. ‘Every man’s sword will be against his own brother. <span id="chapter38_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I will bring my judgment against him<span id="footnotesource302"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote302">*</a> with pestilence and bloodshed; and I will rain down a torrential downpour and hailstones and fire and sulfur on him and on his troops and on the many peoples with him. <span id="pos165589"></span><span id="chapter38_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And I will certainly magnify myself and sanctify myself and make myself known before the eyes of many nations; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote295"><p id="p885" data-pid="885"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource295">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:2</span></a> Or “chief prince.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote296"><p id="p886" data-pid="886"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource296">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:3</span></a> Or “chief prince.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote297"><p id="p887" data-pid="887"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource297">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:4</span></a> A small shield, often carried by archers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote298"><p id="p888" data-pid="888"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource298">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:7</span></a> Lit., “guard.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote299"><p id="p889" data-pid="889"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource299">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:8</span></a> Or “summoned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote300"><p id="p890" data-pid="890"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource300">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:11</span></a> Or “of open, rural country.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote301"><p id="p891" data-pid="891"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource301">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:13</span></a> Or “maned young lions.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote302"><p id="p892" data-pid="892"><a href="1001061130-split38.xhtml#footnotesource302">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 38:22</span></a> Or “I will bring myself into judgment with him.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
