<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_5.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos15162"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>Afterward, Moses and Aaron went in and said to Pharʹaoh: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘Send my people away so that they may celebrate a festival to me in the wilderness.’” <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But Pharʹaoh said: “Who is Jehovah, that I should obey his voice to send Israel away? I do not know Jehovah at all, and what is more, I will not send Israel away.” <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But they said: “The God of the Hebrews has communicated with us. Please, we want to make a three-day journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to Jehovah our God; otherwise, he will strike us with disease or with the sword.” <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The king of Egypt replied to them: “Why is it, Moses and Aaron, that you are taking the people away from their work? Return to your labor!”<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And Pharʹaoh continued: “Look at how many people of the land there are, and you would have them rest from their labor.”</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos16024"></span><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> That same day, Pharʹaoh commanded the taskmasters and their foremen: <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “You must no longer give straw to the people to make bricks. Let them go <span id="page119" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="119" data-before-text="119"></span>and gather straw for themselves. <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But you must still impose on them the same quota of bricks as they made in the past. Do not reduce it for them, for they are relaxing.<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> That is why they are crying out, ‘We want to go, we want to sacrifice to our God!’ <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Make them work harder, and keep them busy so that they will not pay attention to lies.”</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the taskmasters and their foremen went out and said to the people: “Here is what Pharʹaoh has said, ‘I am giving you no more straw. <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Go and get your own straw for yourselves wherever you can find it, but your work will not be reduced at all.’” <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the people scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the taskmasters kept urging them: “You must each finish your work every day, just as when straw was provided.” <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Also the foremen of the Israelites, whom Pharʹaoh’s taskmasters had appointed over them, were beaten. They asked them: “Why did you not reach the quota of bricks that you used to make? It happened both yesterday and today.”</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So the foremen of the Israelites went in and complained to Pharʹaoh: “Why are you treating your servants this way? <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> No straw is given to your servants, yet they are saying to us, ‘Make bricks!’ Your servants are beaten, but your own people are at fault.” <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But he said: “You are relaxing,<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> you are relaxing!<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> That is why you are saying, ‘We want to go, we want to sacrifice to Jehovah.’ <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So now go, get back to work! No straw will be given to you, but you must still produce your quota of bricks.”</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos17757"></span><span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then the foremen of the Israelites saw that they were in serious trouble because of the order: “You must not reduce your daily quota of bricks at all.” <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After that they met up with Moses and Aaron, who were standing there to meet them as they came out from Pharʹaoh. <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> At once they said to them: “May Jehovah look upon you and judge, since you have made Pharʹaoh and his servants despise us<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> and you have put a sword in their hand to kill us.” <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then Moses turned to Jehovah and said: “Jehovah, why have you afflicted this people? Why have you sent me? <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> From the time that I went in before Pharʹaoh to speak in your name, he has dealt worse with this people, and you have certainly not rescued your people.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p401" data-pid="401"><a href="1001061106-split5.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 5:4</span></a> Or “burdens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p402" data-pid="402"><a href="1001061106-split5.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 5:8</span></a> Or “are lazy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p403" data-pid="403"><a href="1001061106-split5.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 5:17</span></a> Or “are lazy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p404" data-pid="404"><a href="1001061106-split5.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 5:17</span></a> Or “are lazy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p405" data-pid="405"><a href="1001061106-split5.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 5:21</span></a> Or “have made us smell offensive to Pharaoh and to his servants.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
