<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_10.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos34585"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>Samuel then took the flask of oil and poured it out on Saul’s head. He kissed him and said: “Has not Jehovah anointed you as a leader over his inheritance? <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> When you leave me today, you will find two men near the tomb of Rachel in the territory of Benjamin at Zelʹzah, and they will say to you, ‘The donkeys that you went to look for have been found, but now your father has forgotten about the donkeys and is worried about you. He is saying: “What should I do about my son?”’ <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Go on from there until you come to the big tree of Taʹbor, where you will meet three men going up to the true God at Bethʹel, one carrying three young goats, one carrying three loaves of bread, and one carrying a large jar of wine. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They will ask about your welfare and give you two loaves, and you must accept the loaves from them. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> After that you will come to the hill of the true God, where there is a garrison of the Phi·lisʹtines. When you come to the city, you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the high place, and a stringed instrument and tambourine and flute and harp will be played ahead of them while they are prophesying. <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The spirit of Jehovah will empower you, and you will prophesy along with them and be changed into a different person. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When these signs have taken place, do whatever your hand finds possible, because the true God is with you. <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then go down ahead of me to Gilʹgal, and I will go down to you there to offer up burnt sacrifices and communion sacrifices. You should wait for seven days until I come to you. Then I will let you know what you should do.”</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As soon as Saul turned around to leave Samuel, God began changing his heart to be like that of someone else, and all these signs came true on that day. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So they went from there to the hill, and a group of prophets met him. At once the spirit of God empowered him, and he began to prophesy among them. <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When all those who previously knew him saw him prophesying with the prophets, they said to one another: “What has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?” <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then a man from there said: “But who is their father?” So it became a saying:<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> “Is Saul also among the prophets?”</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When he finished prophesying, he came to the high place. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The brother of Saul’s father later said to him and to his attendant: “Where did you go?” At that he said: “To look for the donkeys, but we saw that they were not there, so we went to Samuel.” <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Saul’s uncle asked: “Please tell me, what did Samuel say to you?” <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Saul replied to his uncle: “He told us that the donkeys had already been found.” But Saul did not tell him what Samuel said about the matter of the kingship.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="pos37307"></span><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Samuel then called the people together to Jehovah at Mizʹpah <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and said to the Israelites: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘It was I who brought Israel up out of Egypt and who rescued you from the hand of Egypt and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But today you have rejected your God who was your Savior out <span id="page410" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="410" data-before-text="410"></span>of all your evils and distresses, and you said: “No, you should appoint a king over us.” Now take your stand before Jehovah by your tribes and by your thousands.’”<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a></p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Samuel had all the tribes of Israel draw near, and the tribe of Benjamin was selected. <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then he had the tribe of Benjamin draw near by its families, and the family of the Matʹrites was selected. Finally Saul the son of Kish was selected. But when they went to look for him, he was nowhere to be found. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So they inquired of Jehovah: “Has the man come here yet?” Jehovah answered: “There he is hiding himself among the luggage.” <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So they ran and brought him from there. When he stood in the middle of the people, he was head and shoulders taller than all the other people. <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Samuel said to all the people: “Do you see the one whom Jehovah has chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?” And all the people began to shout: “Long live the king!”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Samuel spoke to the people about the rightful due of kings and wrote it in a book and deposited it before Jehovah. Then Samuel sent all the people away, everyone to his house. <span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Saul also went to his home in Gibʹe·ah, accompanied by the warriors whose hearts Jehovah had touched. <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But some worthless men said: “How will this one save us?” So they despised him, and they did not bring any gift to him. But he said nothing about it.<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061113-split10.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 10:12</span></a> Or “a proverb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061113-split10.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 10:19</span></a> Or “clans.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061113-split10.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 10:27</span></a> Lit., “And he was like someone speechless.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
