<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_8.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos44208"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to Aaron and tell him, ‘When you light up the lamps, the seven lamps <span id="page229" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="229" data-before-text="229"></span>should shine on the area in front of the lampstand.’” <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Aaron did this: He lit up its lamps for the area in front of the lampstand, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> This is how the lampstand was made: It was hammered work of gold; from its stem to its blossoms, it was hammered work. The lampstand was made according to the vision that Jehovah had shown Moses.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos44705"></span><span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke again to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Take the Levites from among the Israelites, and cleanse them. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> This is how you should cleanse them: Sprinkle sin-cleansing water on them, and they must shave their whole body with a razor, wash their garments, and cleanse themselves. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then they will take a young bull and its grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, and you will take another young bull for a sin offering. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And you are to present the Levites before the tent of meeting and gather all the assembly of the Israelites. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When you present the Levites before Jehovah, the Israelites are to lay their hands on the Levites. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And Aaron must offer<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> the Levites before Jehovah as a wave offering from the Israelites, and they will carry out the service of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Then the Levites will lay their hands on the heads of the bulls. After that, offer the one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering to Jehovah to make atonement for the Levites. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you will have the Levites stand before Aaron and his sons and offer<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> them as a wave offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You must separate the Levites from among the Israelites, and the Levites will become mine. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Afterward, the Levites will come in to serve at the tent of meeting. This is how you should cleanse them and offer<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> them as a wave offering. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For they are given ones, given to me from among the Israelites. In place of all those who are firstborn<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> of the Israelites, I will take them for myself. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For every firstborn among the Israelites is mine, both man and animal. I sanctified them to myself on the day I struck down every firstborn in the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I will take the Levites in place of all the firstborn among the Israelites. <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> I will give the Levites as given ones to Aaron and his sons from among the Israelites, to carry out the service in behalf of the Israelites at the tent of meeting and to make atonement for the Israelites, so that no plague may occur among the Israelites because the people of Israel come near the holy place.”</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Moses and Aaron and all the assembly of the Israelites did this with the Levites. In accord with all that Jehovah had commanded Moses regarding the Levites, that is what the Israelites did with them. <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So the Levites purified themselves and washed their garments, after which Aaron offered<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> them as a wave offering before Jehovah. Then Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them. <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Thereafter, the Levites went in to carry out their service at the tent of meeting before Aaron and his sons. Just as Jehovah had commanded Moses respecting the Levites, so they did with them.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos47380"></span><span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Jehovah now spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “This applies to the Levites: From 25 years old <span id="page230" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="230" data-before-text="230"></span>and up, a man will join the company of those in the service of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But after the age of 50 years, he will retire from the service company and not serve any longer. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He may minister to his brothers who are taking care of the responsibilities at the tent of meeting, but he must not perform the service there. This is what you are to do regarding the Levites and their responsibilities.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p458" data-pid="458"><a href="1001061108-split8.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 8:11</span></a> Lit., “wave,” that is, cause to move back and forth.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p459" data-pid="459"><a href="1001061108-split8.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 8:13</span></a> Lit., “wave,” that is, cause to move back and forth.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p460" data-pid="460"><a href="1001061108-split8.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 8:15</span></a> Lit., “wave,” that is, cause to move back and forth.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p461" data-pid="461"><a href="1001061108-split8.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 8:16</span></a> Or “all the firstborn opening the wombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p462" data-pid="462"><a href="1001061108-split8.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 8:21</span></a> Lit., “waved,” that is, caused to move back and forth.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
