<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_24.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p237" data-pid="237" class="p237 sb"><span id="pos107340"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Command the Israelites to bring to you pure, beaten olive oil for the lights, to keep the lamps lit constantly. <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Outside the curtain of the Testimony in the tent of meeting, Aaron <span id="page206" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="206" data-before-text="206"></span>should arrange to keep the lamps lit from evening to morning before Jehovah constantly. It is a permanent statute for all your generations. <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He should set the lamps in order on the lampstand of pure gold before Jehovah constantly.</p>
<p id="p238" data-pid="238" class="p238 sb"><span id="pos107818"></span><span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “You will take fine flour and bake it into 12 ring-shaped loaves. Two tenths of an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> should go into each loaf. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You will place them in two sets of layers, six to the layer set, on the table of pure gold before Jehovah. <span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You should put pure frankincense on each layer set, and it will serve as the bread for a token offering<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> made by fire to Jehovah. <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> On each Sabbath day, he should regularly arrange it before Jehovah. It is a lasting covenant with the Israelites. <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> It will become Aaron’s and his sons’, and they will eat it in a holy place, because it is something most holy for him from Jehovah’s offerings made by fire, as a lasting regulation.”</p>
<p id="p239" data-pid="239" class="p239 sb"><span id="pos108489"></span><span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now among the Israelites was a son of an Israelite woman and an Egyptian man, and a fight broke out between him and an Israelite man in the camp. <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The son of the Israelite woman began to abuse the Name<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> and to curse<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> it. So they brought him to Moses. Incidentally, his mother was She·loʹmith, the daughter of Dibʹri of the tribe of Dan. <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> They placed him in custody until Jehovah’s decision was made clear to them.</p>
<p id="p240" data-pid="240" class="p240 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “Bring the one who cursed to the outside of the camp, and all those who heard him must lay their hands on his head, and then the entire assembly must stone him. <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And you should tell the Israelites, ‘If any man curses his God, he will answer for his sin. <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So the abuser of Jehovah’s name should be put to death without fail. The entire assembly should stone him without fail. The foreign resident should be put to death the same as the native for his abusing the Name.</p>
<p id="p241" data-pid="241" class="p241 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘If a man takes a human life,<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> he should be put to death without fail. <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Anyone who strikes and kills a domestic animal<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> should make compensation for it, life for life.<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> If a man injures his fellow man, then what he has done should be done to him. <span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, the same sort of injury he inflicted should be inflicted on him. <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The man who strikes and kills an animal should make compensation for it, but the one who strikes and kills a man should be put to death.</p>
<p id="p242" data-pid="242" class="p242 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “‘One judicial decision will apply for you, whether a foreign resident or a native, because I am Jehovah your God.’”</p>
<p id="p243" data-pid="243" class="p243 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Moses then spoke to the Israelites, and they brought the one who uttered the curse to the outside of the camp, and they stoned him. Thus the Israelites did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p459" data-pid="459"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:5</span></a> Two tenths of an ephah equaled 4.4 L (4 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p460" data-pid="460"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:7</span></a> Or “as a memorial (representative) portion of it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p461" data-pid="461"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:11</span></a> That is, the name Jehovah, as indicated by vss. 15 and 16.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p462" data-pid="462"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:11</span></a> Or “call down evil upon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p463" data-pid="463"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:17</span></a> Or “fatally strikes any human soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p464" data-pid="464"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:18</span></a> Or “And one who fatally strikes the soul of an animal.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p465" data-pid="465"><a href="1001061107-split24.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 24:18</span></a> Or “soul for soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
