<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_6.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos15986"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice like thunder: “Come!” <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And I saw, and look! a white horse, and the one seated on it had a bow; and a crown was given him, and he went out conquering and to complete his conquest.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos16294"></span><span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say: “Come!” <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Another came out, a fiery-colored horse, and it was granted to the one seated on it to take peace away from the earth so that they should slaughter one another, and he was given a great sword.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos16576"></span><span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say: “Come!” And I saw, and look! a black horse, and the one seated on it had a pair of scales in his hand. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> I heard what sounded like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures say: “A quart<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> of wheat for a de·narʹi·us<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> and three quarts of barley for a de·narʹi·us; and do not harm the olive oil and the wine.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="pos16971"></span><span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say: “Come!” <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And I saw, and look! a pale horse, and the one seated on it had the name Death. And the Grave<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> was closely following him. And authority was given them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with a long sword and with food shortage and with deadly plague and by the wild beasts of the earth.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos17370"></span><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> of those slaughtered because of the word of God and because of the witness they had given. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They shouted with a loud voice, saying: “Until when, Sovereign Lord, holy and true, are you refraining from judging and avenging our blood on those who dwell on the earth?” <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And a white robe was given to <span id="page1646" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1646" data-before-text="1646"></span>each of them, and they were told to rest a little while longer, until the number was filled of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed as they had been.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos17941"></span><span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and a great earthquake occurred; and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair,<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> and the entire moon became as blood, <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and the stars of heaven fell to the earth as when a fig tree shaken by a high wind drops its unripe figs. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the heaven departed as a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and every island was removed from its place. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then the kings of the earth, the high officials, the military commanders, the rich, the strong, every slave, and every free person hid in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains. <span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And they keep saying to the mountains and to the rocks: “Fall over us and hide us from the face of the One seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> because the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p177" data-pid="177"><a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 6:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p178" data-pid="178"><a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 6:6</span></a> A Roman silver coin that equaled a day’s wage. See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p179" data-pid="179"><a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 6:8</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p180" data-pid="180"><a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 6:9</span></a> Evidently referring to their lifeblood poured out at the altar. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p181" data-pid="181"><a href="1001061170-split6.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 6:12</span></a> Probably goat hair.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
