<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_11.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="pos39097"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Then Naʹhash the Amʹmon·ite came up and camped against Jaʹbesh in Gilʹe·ad. All the men of Jaʹbesh said to Naʹhash: “Make a covenant<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> with us, and we will serve you.” <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Naʹhash the Amʹmon·ite said to them: “I will make it with you on this condition: that all your right eyes be bored out. I will do this to humiliate all Israel.” <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The elders of Jaʹbesh replied to him: “Give us seven days’ time so that we can send messengers into all the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no one to rescue us, we will surrender to you.” <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In time the messengers came to Gibʹe·ah of Saul and spoke these words in the hearing of the people, and all the people wept at the top of their voice.</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But Saul was coming from the field behind the herd, and Saul said: “What is the matter with the people? Why are they weeping?” So they related to him the words of the men of Jaʹbesh. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The spirit of God empowered Saul when he heard these words, and he burned with anger. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So he took a pair of bulls and cut them into pieces, and he sent these into all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, who said: “Whoever does not follow Saul and Samuel should expect this to be done to his cattle!” And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, so that they came out with one accord.<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he counted them in Beʹzek, and there were 300,000 Israelites and 30,000 men of Judah. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> They now said to the messengers who had come: “This is what you should say to the men of Jaʹbesh in Gilʹe·ad, ‘Tomorrow when the sun gets hot, you will be saved.’” With that the messengers came and told the men of Jaʹbesh, and they were overjoyed. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the men of Jaʹbesh said: “Tomorrow we will surrender to you, and you may <span id="page411" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="411" data-before-text="411"></span>do to us whatever seems good to you.”</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> On the next day, Saul divided the people into three bands, and they made their way into the middle of the camp during the morning watch<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> and struck down the Amʹmon·ites until the day grew hot. Those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together. <span id="pos41142"></span><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the people said to Samuel: “Who was saying, ‘Is Saul to be king over us?’ Hand the men over, and we will put them to death.” <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> However, Saul said: “Not a man should be put to death on this day, for today Jehovah has rescued Israel.”</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Samuel later said to the people: “Come and let us go to Gilʹgal to reconfirm the kingship.” <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So all the people went to Gilʹgal, and in Gilʹgal they made Saul king before Jehovah. Then they offered communion sacrifices there before Jehovah, and Saul and all the men of Israel celebrated with great joy.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061113-split11.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 11:1</span></a> Or “an agreement.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061113-split11.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 11:7</span></a> Lit., “as one man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061113-split11.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 11:11</span></a> That is, about 2:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
