<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_6.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos24724"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>Now in those days when the disciples were increasing, the Greek-speaking Jews began complaining against the Hebrew-speaking Jews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So the Twelve called the multitude of the disciples together and said: “It is not right<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> for us to leave the word of God to distribute food to tables. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So, brothers, select for yourselves seven reputable men<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> from among you, full of spirit and wisdom, that we may appoint them over this necessary matter; <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> but we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.” <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> What they said was pleasing to the whole multitude, and they selected Stephen, a man full of faith and holy spirit, as well as Philip, Prochʹo·rus, Ni·caʹnor, Tiʹmon, Parʹme·nas, and Nic·o·laʹus, a proselyte of Antioch. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They brought them to the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Consequently, the word of God continued to spread, and the number of the disciples kept multiplying very much in Jerusalem; and a large crowd of priests began to be obedient to the faith.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="page1469" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1469" data-before-text="1469"></span><span id="pos25831"></span><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now Stephen, full of divine favor and power, was performing great wonders<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> and signs among the people. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But some men of the so-called Synagogue of the Freedmen came forward, along with some Cy·reʹni·ans and Alexandrians, and some from Ci·liʹcia and Asia, to dispute with Stephen. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But they could not hold their own against the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then they secretly persuaded men to say: “We have heard him speaking blasphemous things against Moses and God.” <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And they stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and coming upon him suddenly, they forcibly seized him and led him to the Sanʹhe·drin. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And they brought forward false witnesses, who said: “This man does not stop speaking things against this holy place and against the Law. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For instance, we have heard him say that this Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ will throw down this place and change the customs that Moses handed down to us.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And as all those sitting in the Sanʹhe·drin stared at him, they saw that his face was like an angel’s face.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061148-split6.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 6:2</span></a> Lit., “pleasing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061148-split6.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 6:3</span></a> Or “seven men who are well-reported-on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061148-split6.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 6:8</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
