<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>James 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061163"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">James</a>  <a href="biblechapternav59.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav59_2.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos3373"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>My brothers, you are not holding to the faith of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ while showing favoritism, are you? <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For if a man with gold rings on his fingers and in splendid clothing comes into your meeting, but a poor man in filthy clothing also enters, <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> do you look with favor on the one wearing the splendid clothing and say, “You take this seat here in a fine place,” and do you say to the poor one, “You keep standing” or, “Take that seat there under my footstool”? <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If so, do you not have class distinctions among yourselves, and have you not become judges rendering wicked decisions?</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Listen, my beloved brothers. Did not God choose those who are poor from the world’s standpoint to be rich in faith and heirs of the Kingdom, which he promised to those who love him? <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and drag you before law courts? <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Do they not blaspheme the fine name by which you were called? <span id="pos4338"></span><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> If, now, you carry out the royal<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> law according to the scripture, “You must love your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing quite well. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But if you continue showing favoritism, you are committing sin, and you are convicted<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> by the law as transgressors.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For if anyone obeys all the Law but makes a false step in one point, he has become an offender against all of it. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For the one who said, “You must not commit adultery,” also said, “You must not murder.” If, now, you do not commit adultery but you do murder, you have become a transgressor of law. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Keep on speaking and behaving in such a way as those do who are going to be judged by the law of a free people.<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For the one who does not practice mercy will have his judgment without mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos5149"></span><span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Of what benefit is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but he does not have works? That faith cannot save him, can it? <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> If any brothers or sisters are lacking clothing<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> and enough food for the day, <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> yet one of you says to them, “Go in peace; keep warm and well fed,” but you do not give them what they need for their body, of what benefit is it? <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So, too, faith by itself, without works, is dead.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Nevertheless, someone will say: “You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.” <span id="pos5738"></span><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You believe that there is one God, do you? You are doing quite well. And yet the demons believe and shudder. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But do you care to know, O empty man, that faith without works is useless? <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Was not Abraham our father declared righteous by works after he offered up Isaac his son on the altar? <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You see that his faith was active along with his works and his faith was perfected by his works, <span id="pos6152"></span><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and the scripture was fulfilled that says: “Abraham put faith in Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> and it was counted to him as righteousness,” and he came to be called Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> friend.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You see that a man is to be declared righteous by works and not by faith alone. <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> In the same manner, was not Raʹhab the prostitute also declared <span id="page1618" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1618" data-before-text="1618"></span>righteous by works after she received the messengers hospitably and sent them out by another way? <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Indeed, just as the body without spirit<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> is dead, so also faith without works is dead.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p49" data-pid="49"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:8</span></a> Or “kingly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p50" data-pid="50"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:9</span></a> Or “reproved.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p51" data-pid="51"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:12</span></a> Lit., “law of freedom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p52" data-pid="52"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:15</span></a> Lit., “are naked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p53" data-pid="53"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p54" data-pid="54"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p55" data-pid="55"><a href="1001061163-split2.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jas. 2:26</span></a> Or “breath.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
