<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Colossians 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061155"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Colossians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav51.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav51_4.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos10964"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>You masters, treat your slaves in a righteous and fair way, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos11075"></span><span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Persevere in prayer, remaining awake in it with thanksgiving. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> At the same time, pray also for us, that God may open a door for the word so that we can declare the sacred secret about the Christ, for which I am in prison bonds, <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and that I may proclaim it as clearly as I ought to.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos11371"></span><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Go on walking in wisdom toward those on the outside, making the best use of your time.<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Let your words always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos11582"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Tychʹi·cus, my beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I am sending him to you so that you will know how we are and that he may comfort your hearts. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He is coming along with O·nesʹi·mus, my faithful and beloved brother, who is from among you; they will tell you all the things happening here.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Ar·is·tarʹchus, my fellow captive, sends you his greetings, and so does Mark, the cousin of Barʹna·bas (concerning whom you received instructions to welcome him if he comes to you), <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and Jesus who is called Justus, who are of those circumcised. Only these are my fellow workers for the Kingdom of God, and they have become a source of great comfort<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> to me. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Epʹa·phras, a slave of Christ Jesus who is from among you, sends you his greetings. He is always exerting himself in your behalf in his prayers, so that you may finally stand complete and with firm conviction in all the will of God. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For I bear him witness that he makes great efforts in your behalf and in behalf of those in La·o·di·ceʹa and Hi·e·rapʹo·lis.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="page1580" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1580" data-before-text="1580"></span><span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Luke, the beloved physician, sends you his greetings, and so does Deʹmas. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Give my greetings to the brothers in La·o·di·ceʹa and to Nymʹpha and to the congregation at her house. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And when this letter has been read among you, arrange for it also to be read in the congregation of the La·o·di·ceʹans and for you also to read the one from La·o·di·ceʹa. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Also, tell Ar·chipʹpus: “Pay attention to the ministry that you accepted in the Lord, in order to fulfill it.”</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand. Keep my prison bonds in mind. The undeserved kindness be with you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p58" data-pid="58"><a href="1001061155-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 4:5</span></a> Lit., “buying out the appointed time.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p59" data-pid="59"><a href="1001061155-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 4:11</span></a> Or “a strengthening aid.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
