<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_7.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos24861"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>When the king was settled in his own house<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> and Jehovah had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies, <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> the king said to Nathan the prophet: “Here I am living in a house of cedars while the Ark of the true God sits in the midst of tent cloths.” <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Nathan replied to the king: “Go and do whatever is in your heart, for Jehovah is with you.”</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> On that very night, the word of Jehovah came to Nathan, saying: <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Should you build me a house to dwell in? <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For I have not dwelled in a house from the day I brought the people of Israel out of Egypt to this day, but I have been moving<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> about in a tent and in a tabernacle. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> During all the time that I went with all the Israelites,<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> did I ever say one word to any of the tribal leaders of Israel whom I appointed to shepherd my people Israel, saying, ‘Why did you not build a house of cedars for me?’”’ <span id="pos25798"></span><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now say this to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “I took you from the pastures, from following the flock, to become a leader over my people Israel. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And I will be with you wherever you go, and I will do away with<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> all your enemies from before you; and I will make a great name for you like the name of the great men of the earth. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I will appoint a place for my people Israel and settle them, and they will live there and not be disturbed anymore; and wicked men will not oppress them again as they did in the past, <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> from the day that I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give you rest from all your enemies.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb">“‘“Also, Jehovah has told you that Jehovah will make a house<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> for you. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When your days come to an end and you are laid to rest with your forefathers, then I will raise up your offspring<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> after you, your own son,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> and I will firmly establish his kingdom. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He is the one who will build a house for my name, and I will firmly establish the throne of his kingdom forever. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will become his father, and he will become my son. When he does wrong, I will reprove him with the rod of men and with the strokes of the sons of men.<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> My loyal love will not be taken away from him the way I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Your house and your kingdom will be secure forever before you; your throne will be firmly established forever.”’”</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Nathan told David all these words and this entire vision.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos27323"></span><span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that King David came in and sat down before Jehovah and said: “Who am I, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah? And what is my house that you have brought me this far? <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> As if this were not enough, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, you also speak about the house of your servant down to a distant future time; and this is instruction<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> for all mankind, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> What more can your servant David say to you when you <span id="page451" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="451" data-before-text="451"></span>know me so well, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah? <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For the sake of your word and in agreement with your heart<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> you have done all these great things and have revealed them to your servant. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> That is why you are truly great, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah. There is no one like you, and there is no God except you; everything we have heard with our ears confirms this. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And what other nation on earth is like your people Israel? God went and redeemed them as his people, making a name for himself by doing great and awe-inspiring things for them. You drove out the nations and their gods in behalf of your people, whom you redeemed to yourself from Egypt. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You established your people Israel as your own people for all time; and you, O Jehovah, have become their God.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “Now, O Jehovah God, carry out the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house for all time, and may you do just as you have promised. <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> May your name be exalted forever, so that people may say, ‘Jehovah of armies is God over Israel,’ and may the house of your servant David be firmly established before you. <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For you, Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, have made a revelation to your servant by saying, ‘I will build a house<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> for you.’ That is why your servant has the courage<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> to pray this prayer to you. <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And now, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, you are the true God, and your words are truth, and you have promised these good things to your servant. <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So may it please you to bless the house of your servant, and may it continue forever before you; for you, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, have promised, and with your blessing may the house of your servant be blessed forever.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:6</span></a> Lit., “walking.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:7</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:9</span></a> Lit., “cut off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:11</span></a> Or “dynasty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:12</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:12</span></a> Lit., “one who will come out of your inward parts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:14</span></a> Or possibly, “Adam.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:19</span></a> Or “law.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:21</span></a> Or “in harmony with your will.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p303" data-pid="303"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:27</span></a> Or “dynasty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p304" data-pid="304"><a href="1001061114-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 7:27</span></a> Lit., “has found his heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
