<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_5.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos17883"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>These are the sons of Reuʹben, Israel’s firstborn. He was the firstborn, but because he defiled<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> the bed of his father, his right as firstborn was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so he was not enrolled genealogically for the right of the firstborn. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Though Judah was superior to his brothers and from him came the one to be the leader, the right as firstborn belonged to Joseph. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The sons of Reuʹben the firstborn of Israel were Haʹnoch, Palʹlu, Hezʹron, and Carʹmi. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The sons of Joel were She·maiʹah his son, Gog his son, Shimʹe·i his son, <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Miʹcah his son, Re·aʹiah his son, Baʹal his son, <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and Be·erʹah his son, whom King Tilʹgath-pil·neʹser of As·syrʹi·a took into exile; he was a chieftain of the Reuʹben·ites. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> His brothers by their families in the genealogical enrollment by their descendants were, as the head, Je·iʹel, Zech·a·riʹah, <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and Beʹla son of Aʹzaz son of Sheʹma son of Joel, who lived in A·roʹer and as far as Neʹbo and Baʹal-meʹon. <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> To the east he settled as far as the beginning of the wilderness at the Eu·phraʹtes River, for their livestock had become numerous in the land of Gilʹe·ad. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> In the days <span id="page573" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="573" data-before-text="573"></span>of Saul, they waged war against the Hagʹrites, who were defeated before them, so they dwelled in their tents throughout all the territory east of Gilʹe·ad.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos19215"></span><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now the descendants of Gad lived next to them in the land of Baʹshan as far as Salʹe·cah. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Joel was the head, Shaʹpham the second, and Jaʹnai and Shaʹphat in Baʹshan. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And their brothers belonging to their paternal houses were Miʹcha·el, Me·shulʹlam, Sheʹba, Joʹrai, Jaʹcan, Ziʹa, and Eʹber, seven in all. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These were the sons of Abʹi·ha·il son of Huʹri son of Ja·roʹah son of Gilʹe·ad son of Miʹcha·el son of Je·shishʹai son of Jahʹdo son of Buz. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Aʹhi son of Abʹdi·el son of Guʹni was head of their paternal house. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They lived in Gilʹe·ad, in Baʹshan and its dependent<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> towns, and in all the pastures of Sharʹon as far as they extended. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They were all enrolled genealogically in the days of King Joʹtham of Judah and in the days of King Jer·o·boʹam<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> of Israel.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos20026"></span><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The Reuʹben·ites, the Gadʹites, and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh had 44,760 mighty warriors in their army who carried shields and swords and were armed with bows,<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> and they were trained in war. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> They waged war against the Hagʹrites, Jeʹtur, Naʹphish, and Noʹdab. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And they were helped in fighting them, so that the Hagʹrites and all who were with them were given into their hand, for they called to God for help in the war, and he responded to their entreaty because they trusted in him. <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> They captured their livestock—50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep, and 2,000 donkeys—as well as 100,000 people.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Many had fallen slain, because the war was waged by the true God. And they lived in their place until the time of the exile.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos20782"></span><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The descendants of the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh lived in the land from Baʹshan to Baʹal-herʹmon and Seʹnir and Mount Herʹmon. They were numerous. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> These were the heads of their paternal houses: Eʹpher, Ishʹi, Eʹli·el, Azʹri·el, Jeremiah, Hod·a·viʹah, and Jahʹdi·el; they were mighty warriors, men of fame, and heads of their paternal houses. <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But they acted unfaithfully toward the God of their forefathers and prostituted themselves to the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had annihilated from before them. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of King Pul of As·syrʹi·a (that is, King Tilʹgath-pil·neʹser of As·syrʹi·a) so that he took into exile those of the Reuʹben·ites, the Gadʹites, and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh and brought them to Haʹlah, Haʹbor, Haʹra, and the river Goʹzan, where they are until this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061117-split5.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:1</span></a> Or “profaned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061117-split5.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:16</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061117-split5.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:17</span></a> That is, Jeroboam II.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061117-split5.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:18</span></a> Lit., “and tread the bow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061117-split5.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:21</span></a> Or “human souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
