<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_15.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="page1326" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1326" data-before-text="1326"></span><span id="pos62903"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>Then there came to Jesus from Jerusalem Pharisees and scribes, saying: <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Why do your disciples overstep the tradition of the men of former times? For example, they do not wash<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> their hands when about to eat a meal.”</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> In reply he said to them: “Why do you overstep the commandment of God because of your tradition? <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For example, God said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Let the one who speaks abusively of<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> his father or mother be put to death.’ <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But you say, ‘Whoever says to his father or mother: “Whatever I have that could benefit you is a gift dedicated to God,” <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> he need not honor his father at all.’ So you have made the word of God invalid because of your tradition. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You hypocrites, Isaiah aptly prophesied about you when he said: <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> ‘This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> It is in vain that they keep worshipping me, for they teach commands of men as doctrines.’” <span id="pos63871"></span><span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> With that he called the crowd near and said to them: “Listen and get the sense of it: <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> It is not what enters into a man’s mouth that defiles him, but it is what comes out of his mouth that defiles him.”</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the disciples came and said to him: “Do you know that the Pharisees were stumbled at hearing what you said?” <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In reply he said: “Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Let them be. Blind guides is what they are. If, then, a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit.” <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Peter responded: “Make the illustration plain to us.” <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At this he said: “Are you also still without understanding? <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Are you not aware that whatever enters into the mouth passes through the stomach and is discharged into the sewer? <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, whatever comes out of the mouth comes from the heart, and those things defile a man. <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For example, out of the heart come wicked reasonings: murders, adulteries, sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> These are the things that defile a man; but to take a meal with unwashed<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> hands does not defile a man.”</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos65029"></span><span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Leaving there, Jesus now went into the region of Tyre and Siʹdon. <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And look! a Phoe·niʹcian woman from that region came and cried out: “Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David. My daughter is cruelly demon possessed.” <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But he did not say a word in answer to her. So his disciples came and began to urge him: “Send her away, because she keeps crying out after us.” <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He answered: “I was not sent to anyone except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But the woman came and did obeisance<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> to him, saying: “Lord, help me!” <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> In answer he said: “It is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.” <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> She said: “Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.” <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then Jesus replied to her: “O woman, great is your faith; let it happen to you as you wish.” And her daughter was healed from that hour on.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="page1327" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1327" data-before-text="1327"></span><span id="pos65964"></span><span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Departing from there, Jesus next came near the Sea of Galʹi·lee, and after going up on the mountain, he was sitting there. <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then large crowds approached him, bringing along people who were lame, maimed, blind, speechless, and many others, and they laid them at his feet, and he cured them. <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So the crowd felt amazement as they saw the speechless speaking and the maimed being made sound and the lame walking and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos66458"></span><span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But Jesus called his disciples to him and said: “I feel pity for the crowd, because they have already stayed with me for three days and they have had nothing to eat. I do not want to send them away hungry,<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> for they may give out on the road.” <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> However, the disciples said to him: “Where in this isolated place are we going to get enough bread to satisfy a crowd of this size?” <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> At this Jesus said to them: “How many loaves do you have?” They said: “Seven, and a few small fish.” <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> So after instructing the crowd to recline on the ground, <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> he took the seven loaves and the fish, and after offering thanks, he broke them and began giving them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And all ate and were satisfied, and they took up seven large baskets<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> full of leftover fragments. <span id="chapter15_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Now those eating were 4,000 men, as well as women and young children. <span id="chapter15_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Finally, after sending the crowds away, he got into the boat and came into the region of Magʹa·dan.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p334" data-pid="334"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:2</span></a> That is, ceremonially cleanse.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p335" data-pid="335"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:4</span></a> Or “reviles.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p336" data-pid="336"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:19</span></a> Plural of the Greek <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p337" data-pid="337"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:20</span></a> That is, not ceremonially cleansed.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p338" data-pid="338"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:25</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p339" data-pid="339"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:32</span></a> Or “fasting.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p340" data-pid="340"><a href="1001061144-split15.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 15:37</span></a> Or “provision baskets.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
