<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_4.xhtml">1 - 54</a></p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="page1430" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1430" data-before-text="1430"></span><span id="pos13406"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>When the Lord became aware that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John— <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> although Jesus himself did no baptizing but his disciples did— <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> he left Ju·deʹa and departed again for Galʹi·lee. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But it was necessary for him to go through Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he came to a city of Sa·marʹi·a called Syʹchar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In fact, Jacob’s well was there. Now Jesus, tired out as he was from the journey, was sitting at the well.<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> It was about the sixth hour.<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a></p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> A woman of Sa·marʹi·a came to draw water. Jesus said to her: “Give me a drink.” <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> (For his disciples had gone off into the city to buy food.) <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So the Sa·marʹi·tan woman said to him: “How is it that you, despite being a Jew, ask me for a drink even though I am a Sa·marʹi·tan woman?” (For Jews have no dealings with Sa·marʹi·tans.) <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to her: “If you had known of the free gift of God and who it is who says to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.” <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> She said to him: “Sir, you do not even have a bucket for drawing water, and the well is deep. From what source, then, do you have this living water? <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> You are not greater than our forefather Jacob, who gave us the well and who together with his sons and his cattle drank out of it, are you?” <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to her: “Everyone drinking from this water will get thirsty again. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Whoever drinks from the water that I will give him will never get thirsty at all, but the water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water bubbling up to impart everlasting life.” <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The woman said to him: “Sir, give me this water, so that I may neither thirst nor keep coming over to this place to draw water.”</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He said to her: “Go, call your husband and come to this place.” <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The woman replied: “I do not have a husband.” Jesus said to her: “You are right in saying, ‘I do not have a husband.’ <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For you have had five husbands, and the man you now have is not your husband. This you have said truthfully.” <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The woman said to him: “Sir, I see that you are a prophet. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Our forefathers worshipped on this mountain, but you people say that in Jerusalem is the place where people must worship.” <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Believe me, woman, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, because salvation begins with the Jews. <span id="pos16003"></span><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Nevertheless, the hour is coming, and it is now, when the true worshippers will worship the Father with spirit and truth, for indeed, the Father is looking for ones like these to worship him. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> God is a Spirit, and those worshipping him must worship with spirit and truth.” <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The woman said to him: “I know that Mes·siʹah is coming, who is called Christ. Whenever that one comes, he will declare all things to us openly.” <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “I am he, the one speaking to you.”</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Just then his disciples arrived, and they were surprised because he was speaking with a woman. Of course, no one said: “What are you looking for?” or “Why are you talking to her?” <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So the woman left her water <span id="page1431" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1431" data-before-text="1431"></span>jar and went off into the city and told the people: <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Come and see a man who told me everything I did. Could this not perhaps be the Christ?” <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> They left the city and began coming to him.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him: “Rabbi, eat.” <span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But he said to them: “I have food to eat that you do not know about.” <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So the disciples said to one another: “No one brought him anything to eat, did he?” <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Do you not say that there are yet four months before the harvest comes? Look! I say to you: Lift up your eyes and view the fields, that they are white for harvesting. Already <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> the reaper is receiving wages and gathering fruit for everlasting life, so that the sower and the reaper may rejoice together. <span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> For in this respect the saying is true: One is the sower and another the reaper. <span id="chapter4_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> I sent you to reap what you did not labor on. Others have labored, and you have entered into the benefit of their labor.”</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos17796"></span><span id="chapter4_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Many of the Sa·marʹi·tans from that city put faith in him because of the word of the woman who bore witness, saying: “He told me all the things I did.” <span id="chapter4_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> So when the Sa·marʹi·tans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. <span id="chapter4_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> As a result, many more believed because of what he said, <span id="chapter4_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> and they said to the woman: “We no longer believe just because of what you said; for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this man really is the savior of the world.”</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="pos18314"></span><span id="chapter4_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> After the two days, he left there for Galʹi·lee. <span id="chapter4_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Jesus himself, however, bore witness that a prophet has no honor in his own homeland. <span id="chapter4_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> So when he arrived in Galʹi·lee, the Gal·i·leʹans welcomed him, because they had seen all the things he did in Jerusalem at the festival, for they too had gone to the festival.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Then he came again to Caʹna of Galʹi·lee, where he had turned the water into wine. Now there was a royal official whose son was sick in Ca·perʹna·um. <span id="chapter4_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> When this man heard that Jesus had come out of Ju·deʹa into Galʹi·lee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of dying. <span id="chapter4_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> But Jesus said to him: “Unless you people see signs and wonders, you will never believe.” <span id="chapter4_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> The royal official said to him: “Lord, come down before my young child dies.” <span id="chapter4_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Go your way; your son lives.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he left. <span id="chapter4_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> But while he was on his way down, his slaves met him to say that his boy was alive.<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> So he asked them at what hour he got better. They replied to him: “The fever left him yesterday at the seventh hour.”<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> The father then knew that it was in the very hour that Jesus had said to him: “Your son lives.” So he and his whole household believed. <span id="chapter4_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> This was the second sign Jesus performed when he came from Ju·deʹa into Galʹi·lee.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p167" data-pid="167"><a href="1001061147-split4.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 4:6</span></a> Or “fountain; spring.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p168" data-pid="168"><a href="1001061147-split4.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 4:6</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p169" data-pid="169"><a href="1001061147-split4.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 4:51</span></a> Or “was recovering.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p170" data-pid="170"><a href="1001061147-split4.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 4:52</span></a> That is, about 1:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
