<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_14.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="pos54410"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Jehovah now said to Moses: <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites that they should turn back and encamp before Pi·ha·hiʹroth, between Migʹdol and the sea, within view of Baʹal-zeʹphon. You are to encamp facing it by the sea. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Pharʹaoh will say about the Israelites, ‘They are wandering in confusion in the land. The wilderness has closed in on them.’ <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I will allow Pharʹaoh’s heart to become obstinate, and he will chase after them, and I will glorify myself by means of Pharʹaoh and all his army; and the Egyptians will certainly know that I am Jehovah.” So that is what they did.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos54998"></span><span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Later it was reported to the king of Egypt that the people had run away. Immediately, Pharʹaoh and his servants had a change of heart regarding the people, and they said: “Why did we do this and release Israel from serving as slaves for us?” <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So he made his war chariots ready, and he took his people with him. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He took 600 chosen chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt, with warriors on every one of them. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Thus Jehovah allowed the heart of Pharʹaoh king of Egypt to become obstinate, and he chased after the Israelites, while the Israelites were going out with confidence.<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The Egyptians chased after them, and all the chariot horses of Pharʹaoh and his cavalrymen and his army were catching up with them while they were camping by the sea, by Pi·ha·hiʹroth, facing Baʹal-zeʹphon.</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When Pharʹaoh got closer, the Israelites raised their eyes and saw the Egyptians pursuing them. The Israelites became terrified and began to cry out to Jehovah. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They said to Moses: “Is it because there are no burial places in Egypt that you have brought us here to die in the wilderness? What have you done to us by leading us out of Egypt? <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Is this not the very thing we told you in Egypt when we said, ‘Let us alone, so that we may serve the Egyptians’? For it is better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness.” <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Moses said to the people: “Do not be afraid. Stand firm and see the salvation of Jehovah that he will perform for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you will never ever see again. <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah himself will fight for you, and you will keep silent.”</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos56642"></span><span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Jehovah now said to Moses: “Why do you keep crying out to me? Tell the Israelites that they should break camp. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As for you, lift up your rod and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it, so that the Israelites may go through the midst of the sea on dry ground. <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> As for me, I am allowing the hearts of the Egyptians to become obstinate, so that they will go in after them; thus I will glorify myself by means of Pharʹaoh and all his army, his war chariots, and his cavalrymen. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And the Egyptians will certainly know that I am Jehovah when I glorify myself by means of Pharʹaoh, his war chariots, and his cavalrymen.”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="page132" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="132" data-before-text="132"></span><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then the angel of the true God who was going ahead of the camp of Israel departed and went to their rear, and the pillar of cloud that was in front of them moved to the rear and stood behind them. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. On the one side, it was a dark cloud. On the other side, it was lighting up the night. So the one camp did not come near the other camp all night long.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Moses now stretched out his hand over the sea; and Jehovah drove the sea back with a strong east wind all night long, turning the sea basin into dry ground, and the waters divided. <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So the Israelites went through the midst of the sea on dry ground, while the waters formed a wall on their right hand and on their left. <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The Egyptians pursued them, and all Pharʹaoh’s horses, his war chariots, and his cavalrymen began going after them into the midst of the sea. <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> During the morning watch,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> Jehovah looked at the camp of the Egyptians from within the pillar of fire and cloud, and he threw the camp of the Egyptians into confusion. <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He kept taking wheels off their chariots so that they were driving them with difficulty, and the Egyptians were saying: “Let us flee from any contact with Israel, because Jehovah is fighting for them against the Egyptians.”</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos58622"></span><span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may come back over the Egyptians, their war chariots, and their cavalrymen.” <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moses at once stretched out his hand over the sea, and as morning approached, the sea returned to its normal condition. As the Egyptians fled from it, Jehovah shook the Egyptians off into the midst of the sea. <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The returning waters covered the war chariots and the cavalrymen and all of Pharʹaoh’s army who had gone into the sea after them. Not so much as one among them was allowed to survive.</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos59198"></span><span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But the Israelites walked on dry ground in the midst of the seabed, and the waters formed a wall on their right hand and on their left. <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Thus Jehovah saved Israel on that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. <span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Israel also saw the great power<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> that Jehovah wielded against the Egyptians, and the people began to fear Jehovah and to put faith in Jehovah and in his servant Moses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061106-split14.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 14:8</span></a> Lit., “with uplifted hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061106-split14.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 14:24</span></a> That is, about 2:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061106-split14.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 14:31</span></a> Lit., “hand.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
