<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_6.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos18845"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>What are we to say then? Should we continue in sin so that undeserved kindness may increase? <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Certainly not! Seeing that we died with reference to sin, how can we keep living any longer in it? <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Or do you not know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So we were buried with him through our baptism into his death, in order that just as Christ was raised up from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also should walk in a newness of life. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> If we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we will certainly also be united with him in the likeness of his resurrection. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For we know that our old personality was nailed to the stake along with him in order for our sinful body to be made powerless, so that we should no longer go on being slaves to sin. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For the one who has died has been acquitted<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> from his sin.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Moreover, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For we know that Christ, now that he has been raised up from the dead, dies no more; death is no longer master over him. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For the death that he died, he died with reference to sin<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> once for all time, but the life that he lives, he lives with reference to God. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Likewise you, consider yourselves to be dead with reference to sin but living with reference to God by Christ Jesus.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos20242"></span><span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Therefore, do not let sin continue to rule as king in your mortal bodies so that you should obey their desires. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Neither go on presenting your bodies<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> to sin as weapons of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, also your bodies<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> to God as weapons of righteousness. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For sin must not be master over you, seeing that you are not under law but under undeserved kindness.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos20671"></span><span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> What follows? Are we to commit a sin because we are not under law but under undeserved kindness? Certainly not! <span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one you obey, either of sin leading to death or of obedience leading to righteousness? <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But thanks to God that although you were once the slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that pattern of teaching to which you were handed over. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Yes, since you were set free from sin, you became slaves to righteousness. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh; for just as you presented your members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness leading to lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to holiness. <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For when you were slaves of sin, you were free as to righteousness.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> What, then, was the fruit that you used to produce at that time? Things of which you are now ashamed. For the end of those things is death. <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, now that you were set free from sin and became slaves to God, you are producing your fruit in the way of holiness, and the end is everlasting life. <span id="pos21881"></span><span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For the wages sin pays is death, but the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p124" data-pid="124"><a href="1001061149-split6.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 6:7</span></a> Or “released; pardoned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p125" data-pid="125"><a href="1001061149-split6.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 6:10</span></a> That is, to remove sin.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p126" data-pid="126"><a href="1001061149-split6.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 6:13</span></a> Lit., “members.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p127" data-pid="127"><a href="1001061149-split6.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 6:13</span></a> Lit., “members.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
