<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 34</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">34</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_34.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p383" data-pid="383" class="p383 sb"><span id="pos167967"></span><span id="chapter34"></span><span id="chapter34_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>34</strong> </span>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter34_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Give these instructions to the Israelites: ‘When you go into the land of Caʹnaan, this is the land that will fall to you as an inheritance, the land of Caʹnaan according to its boundaries.</p>
<p id="p384" data-pid="384" class="p384 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “‘Your southern border will extend from the wilderness of Zin alongside Eʹdom, and your south boundary on the east will be from the extremity of the Salt Sea.<span id="footnotesource234"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote234">*</a> <span id="chapter34_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Your boundary will change direction to pass south of the ascent of A·krabʹbim and continue to Zin, and its end will be south of Kaʹdesh-barʹne·a. Then it will extend to Haʹzar-adʹdar and continue to Azʹmon. <span id="chapter34_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The boundary will change direction at Azʹmon to the Wadi<span id="footnotesource235"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote235">*</a> of Egypt, and its end will be at the Sea.<span id="footnotesource236"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote236">*</a></p>
<p id="p385" data-pid="385" class="p385 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘Your western boundary will be the Great Sea<span id="footnotesource237"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote237">*</a> and the coast. This will become your western boundary.</p>
<p id="p386" data-pid="386" class="p386 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘Now this will be your northern boundary: From the Great Sea you will mark your boundary out to Mount Hor. <span id="chapter34_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> From Mount Hor you will mark out the boundary to Leʹbo-haʹmath,<span id="footnotesource238"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote238">*</a> and the end of the boundary will be at Zeʹdad. <span id="chapter34_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And the boundary will extend to Ziphʹron, and its end will be Haʹzar-eʹnan. This will become your northern boundary.</p>
<p id="p387" data-pid="387" class="p387 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘Then you should mark as your boundary on the east from Haʹzar-eʹnan to Sheʹpham. <span id="chapter34_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The boundary will extend from Sheʹpham to Ribʹlah on the east of Aʹin, and the border will go down and cross the eastern slope of the Sea of Chinʹne·reth.<span id="footnotesource239"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote239">*</a> <span id="chapter34_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The border will extend to the Jordan, and its end will be the Salt Sea. This will be your land and the boundaries surrounding it.’”</p>
<p id="p388" data-pid="388" class="p388 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So Moses instructed the Israelites, saying: “This is the land that you will apportion as your possession by lot, just as Jehovah has commanded to give to the nine and a half tribes. <span id="chapter34_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For the tribe of the Reuʹben·ites by their paternal house, the tribe of the Gadʹites by their paternal house, and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh have already taken their inheritance. <span id="chapter34_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The two and a half tribes have already taken their inheritance east of the region of the Jordan by Jerʹi·cho, toward the sunrising.”</p>
<p id="p389" data-pid="389" class="p389 sb"><span id="pos170071"></span><span id="chapter34_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter34_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “These are the names of the men who will divide the land for you to possess: El·e·aʹzar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun. <span id="chapter34_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And you will take one chieftain out of each tribe to divide the land as your inheritance. <span id="chapter34_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> These are the names of the men: of the tribe of Judah, Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh; <span id="chapter34_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Simʹe·on, She·muʹel the son of Am·miʹhud; <span id="chapter34_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> of the tribe of Benjamin, E·liʹdad the son of Chisʹlon; <span id="chapter34_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Dan, a chieftain, Bukʹki the son of Jogʹli; <span id="chapter34_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> of the sons of <span id="page270" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="270" data-before-text="270"></span>Joseph from the tribe of the sons of Ma·nasʹseh, a chieftain, Hanʹni·el the son of Eʹphod; <span id="chapter34_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> from the tribe of the sons of Eʹphra·im, a chieftain, Kem·uʹel the son of Shiphʹtan; <span id="chapter34_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Zebʹu·lun, a chieftain, E·li·zaʹphan the son of Parʹnach; <span id="chapter34_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Isʹsa·char, a chieftain, Palʹti·el the son of Azʹzan; <span id="chapter34_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Ashʹer, a chieftain, A·hiʹhud the son of She·loʹmi; <span id="chapter34_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> of the tribe of the sons of Naphʹta·li, a chieftain, Ped·ahʹel the son of Am·miʹhud.” <span id="chapter34_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> These are the ones whom Jehovah commanded to distribute the land to the Israelites in the land of Caʹnaan.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote234"><p id="p637" data-pid="637"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource234">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:3</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote235"><p id="p638" data-pid="638"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource235">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:5</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote236"><p id="p639" data-pid="639"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource236">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:5</span></a> That is, the Great Sea, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote237"><p id="p640" data-pid="640"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource237">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:6</span></a> That is, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote238"><p id="p641" data-pid="641"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource238">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:8</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote239"><p id="p642" data-pid="642"><a href="1001061108-split34.xhtml#footnotesource239">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 34:11</span></a> That is, the lake of Gennesaret, or the Sea of Galilee.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
