<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_26.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p244" data-pid="244" class="p244 sb"><span id="pos104390"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26</strong> </span>“You are to make the tabernacle with ten tent cloths of fine twisted linen, blue thread, purple wool, and scarlet material. You are to make them with embroidered cherub designs. <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Each tent cloth will be 28 cubits<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> long and 4 cubits wide. All the tent cloths are to be the same size. <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Five tent cloths are to be joined one to another to form a series, and the other five tent cloths will be joined in a series. <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You will make loops of blue thread on the edge of the one tent cloth at the end of the series, and you are to do the same on the outermost edge of the other set where it will join. <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You will make 50 loops on the one tent cloth and 50 loops on the edge of the other tent cloth so that they will be opposite each other where they join. <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You are to make 50 gold clasps and join the tent cloths together with the clasps, and the tabernacle will form one unit.</p>
<p id="p245" data-pid="245" class="p245 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “You will also make cloths of goat hair for the tent over the tabernacle. You will make 11 tent cloths. <span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Each tent cloth will be 30 cubits long and 4 cubits wide. All 11 tent cloths are to be the same size. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> You are to join five of the tent cloths together and join the other six tent cloths together, and you are to fold over the sixth tent cloth at the front of the tent. <span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And you are to make 50 loops on the edge of the one tent cloth, the outermost one in the series, and 50 loops on the edge of the tent cloth at the other place where they join. <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You are to make 50 copper clasps and put the clasps in the loops and join the tent together, and it will become one unit. <span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The remaining part of the tent cloths will serve as an overhanging. Half of the tent cloth that remains will hang over the back of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The remaining length of the cloths of the tent will serve as an overhanging for the tabernacle by one cubit on each side, in order to cover it.</p>
<p id="p246" data-pid="246" class="p246 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “You will also make a covering for the tent of ram skins dyed red and over that a covering of sealskins.</p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sb"><span id="page148" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="148" data-before-text="148"></span><span id="pos106399"></span><span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “You will make the panel frames for the tabernacle out of acacia wood standing upright. <span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Each panel frame is to be ten cubits high and a cubit and a half wide. <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Each panel frame has two tenons<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> joined to each other. That is how you should make all the panel frames of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> You are to make 20 panel frames for the south side of the tabernacle, facing south.</p>
<p id="p248" data-pid="248" class="p248 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “You will make 40 silver socket pedestals under the 20 panel frames: two socket pedestals under the one panel frame for its two tenons and two socket pedestals under each following panel frame for its two tenons. <span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For the other side of the tabernacle, the northern side, make 20 panel frames <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and their 40 silver socket pedestals, two socket pedestals under one panel frame and two socket pedestals under each following panel frame. <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For the rear section of the tabernacle to the west, you will make six panel frames. <span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You will make two panel frames to serve as the two rear corner posts of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They should be doubled from the bottom to the top, up to the first ring. This should be done for both of them, and they will form the two corner posts. <span id="chapter26_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And there will be eight panel frames and their 16 silver socket pedestals, two socket pedestals under the one panel frame and two socket pedestals under each following panel frame.</p>
<p id="p249" data-pid="249" class="p249 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “You will make bars of acacia wood, five for the panel frames of the one side of the tabernacle, <span id="chapter26_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> and five bars for the panel frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the panel frames of the side of the tabernacle to the west, for the rear section. <span id="chapter26_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The middle bar that runs along the center of the panel frames should extend from end to end.</p>
<p id="p250" data-pid="250" class="p250 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “You will overlay the panel frames with gold, and you will make their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and you will overlay the bars with gold. <span id="chapter26_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> You must set up the tabernacle according to its plan that you were shown in the mountain.</p>
<p id="p251" data-pid="251" class="p251 sb"><span id="pos108423"></span><span id="chapter26_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “You are to make a curtain of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen. It will be made with cherubs embroidered on it. <span id="chapter26_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> You will hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold. Their hooks are to be of gold. The pillars are set on four socket pedestals of silver. <span id="chapter26_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> You will hang the curtain under the clasps and bring the ark of the Testimony there within the curtain. The curtain will make a division for you between the Holy and the Most Holy. <span id="chapter26_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> You must put the cover on the ark of the Testimony in the Most Holy.</p>
<p id="p252" data-pid="252" class="p252 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “You will place the table outside the curtain, with the lampstand opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle; and the table you will put on the north side. <span id="chapter26_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> You will make a screen<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> for the entrance of the tent out of blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine twisted linen woven together. <span id="chapter26_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> You will make five pillars of acacia for the screen<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> and overlay them with gold. Their hooks are to be of gold, and you will cast five socket pedestals of copper for them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p id="p532" data-pid="532"><a href="1001061106-split26.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 26:2</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p id="p533" data-pid="533"><a href="1001061106-split26.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 26:17</span></a> Or “upright posts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p id="p534" data-pid="534"><a href="1001061106-split26.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 26:36</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p id="p535" data-pid="535"><a href="1001061106-split26.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 26:37</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
