<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 34</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">34</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_34.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p308" data-pid="308" class="p308 sb"><span id="pos142109"></span><span id="chapter34"></span><span id="chapter34_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>34</strong> </span>Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Carve out for yourself two tablets of stone like the first ones, and I will write on the tablets the words that appeared on the first tablets, which you shattered. <span id="chapter34_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Get ready for the morning, as you will go up in the morning to Mount Siʹnai and station yourself before me there on the top of the mountain. <span id="chapter34_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But nobody may go up with you, and nobody else should be seen anywhere on the mountain. Not even the flocks or herds should graze in front of that mountain.”</p>
<p id="p309" data-pid="309" class="p309 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Moses carved out two tablets of stone like the first ones and got up early in the morning and went up Mount Siʹnai, just as Jehovah had commanded him, and he took the two tablets of stone in his hand. <span id="pos142823"></span><span id="chapter34_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Jehovah came down in the cloud and stationed himself with him there and declared the name of Jehovah. <span id="chapter34_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jehovah was passing before him and declaring: “Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and compassionate,<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a> slow to anger and abundant in loyal love<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> and truth,<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> <span id="chapter34_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> showing loyal love to thousands, pardoning error and transgression and sin, but he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons and upon grandsons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation.”</p>
<p id="p310" data-pid="310" class="p310 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Moses hurried to bow low to the earth and prostrate himself. <span id="chapter34_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then he said: “If, now, I have found favor in your eyes, O Jehovah, then please, Jehovah, go along with us in our midst, although we are an obstinate<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> people, and forgive our error and our sin, and take us as your own possession.” <span id="pos143673"></span><span id="chapter34_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> In turn he said: “Here I am making a covenant: Before all your people, I will do wonderful things that have never been done<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> in all the earth or among all the nations, and all the people among whom you live will see the work of Jehovah, for it is an awe-inspiring thing that I am doing with you.</p>
<p id="p311" data-pid="311" class="p311 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Pay attention to what I am commanding you today. Here I <span id="page160" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="160" data-before-text="160"></span>am driving out from before you the Amʹor·ites, the Caʹnaan·ites, the Hitʹtites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites. <span id="chapter34_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Be careful that you do not make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land to which you are going, or it may prove to be a snare among you. <span id="chapter34_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But you are to pull down their altars, you are to shatter their sacred pillars, and their sacred poles<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> you are to cut down. <span id="chapter34_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> You must not bow down to another god, for Jehovah is known for<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> requiring exclusive devotion.<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> Yes, he is a God who requires exclusive devotion. <span id="chapter34_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, because when they prostitute themselves to their gods and sacrifice to their gods, someone will invite you and you will eat from his sacrifice. <span id="chapter34_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then you will surely take some of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters will prostitute themselves to their gods and cause your sons to prostitute themselves to their gods.</p>
<p id="p312" data-pid="312" class="p312 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “You must not make gods of cast metal.</p>
<p id="p313" data-pid="313" class="p313 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “You are to observe the Festival of Unleavened Bread. You will eat unleavened bread, just as I have commanded you; do this for seven days at the appointed time in the month of Aʹbib,<span id="footnotesource234"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote234">*</a> because it was in the month of Aʹbib that you came out of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p314" data-pid="314" class="p314 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Every firstborn male<span id="footnotesource235"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote235">*</a> is mine, including all your livestock, whether the first male bull or sheep. <span id="chapter34_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The firstling of a donkey you are to redeem with a sheep. But if you do not redeem it, then you must break its neck. You are to redeem every firstborn of your sons. No one may appear before me empty-handed.</p>
<p id="p315" data-pid="315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Six days you are to work, but on the seventh day you will rest.<span id="footnotesource236"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote236">*</a> Even during plowing time and in harvest, you will rest.</p>
<p id="p316" data-pid="316" class="p316 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “And you will celebrate your Festival of Weeks with the first ripe fruits of the wheat harvest, and the Festival of Ingathering<span id="footnotesource237"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote237">*</a> at the turn of the year.</p>
<p id="p317" data-pid="317" class="p317 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “Three times a year, all your men<span id="footnotesource238"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote238">*</a> are to appear before the true Lord, Jehovah, the God of Israel. <span id="chapter34_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For I will drive the nations away from before you, and I will enlarge your territory, and nobody will desire your land while you are going up to see the face of Jehovah your God three times a year.</p>
<p id="p318" data-pid="318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “You must not offer the blood of my sacrifice along with anything leavened. The sacrifice of the festival of the Passover should not be kept overnight until the morning.</p>
<p id="p319" data-pid="319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “The best of the first ripe fruits of your soil you are to bring to the house of Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p320" data-pid="320" class="p320 sb">“You must not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.”</p>
<p id="p321" data-pid="321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Jehovah went on to say to Moses: “You are to write down these words, because in accordance with these words, I am making a covenant with you and with Israel.” <span id="chapter34_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And he remained there with Jehovah 40 days and 40 nights. He ate no bread and drank no water. And He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments.<span id="footnotesource239"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote239">*</a></p>
<p id="p322" data-pid="322" class="p322 sb"><span id="page161" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="161" data-before-text="161"></span><span id="pos146948"></span><span id="chapter34_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moses then came down from Mount Siʹnai, and the two tablets of the Testimony were in his hand. When he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face was emitting rays because he had been speaking with God. <span id="chapter34_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, they noticed that the skin of his face emitted rays and they were afraid to go near him.</p>
<p id="p323" data-pid="323" class="p323 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But Moses called to them, so Aaron and all the chieftains of the assembly came to him, and Moses spoke with them. <span id="chapter34_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> After that all the Israelites came near to him, and he gave them all the commands that Jehovah had given him on Mount Siʹnai. <span id="chapter34_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> When Moses would finish speaking with them, he would put a veil over his face. <span id="chapter34_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But when Moses would go in before Jehovah to speak with him, he would take off the veil until he went out. Then he went out and revealed to the Israelites the commands he had received. <span id="chapter34_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And the Israelites saw that the skin of Moses’ face emitted rays; then Moses put the veil back over his face until he went in to speak with God.<span id="footnotesource240"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote240">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p605" data-pid="605"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:6</span></a> Or “gracious.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p606" data-pid="606"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:6</span></a> Or “loving-kindness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p607" data-pid="607"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:6</span></a> Or “faithfulness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p608" data-pid="608"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:9</span></a> Lit., “stiff-necked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p609" data-pid="609"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:10</span></a> Or “created.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p610" data-pid="610"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:13</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p611" data-pid="611"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:14</span></a> Lit., “Jehovah, his name is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p id="p612" data-pid="612"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:14</span></a> Or “not tolerating rivals.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote234"><p id="p613" data-pid="613"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource234">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:18</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote235"><p id="p614" data-pid="614"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource235">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:19</span></a> Lit., “Everything that opens the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote236"><p id="p615" data-pid="615"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource236">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:21</span></a> Or “keep sabbath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote237"><p id="p616" data-pid="616"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource237">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:22</span></a> Also known as the Festival of Booths (Tabernacles).</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote238"><p id="p617" data-pid="617"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource238">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:23</span></a> Or “males.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote239"><p id="p618" data-pid="618"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource239">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:28</span></a> Lit., “the Ten Words.” Also known as the Decalogue.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote240"><p id="p619" data-pid="619"><a href="1001061106-split34.xhtml#footnotesource240">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 34:35</span></a> Lit., “him.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
