<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_13.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos64495"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Send out men to spy<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> out the land of Caʹnaan, which I am giving to the Israelites. You are to send out one man from each ancestral tribe, each one a chieftain among them.”</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Moses sent them out from the wilderness of Paʹran at the order of Jehovah. All the men were heads of the Israelites. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> These are their names: of the tribe of Reuʹben, Sham·muʹa the son of Zacʹcur; <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> of the tribe of Simʹe·on, Shaʹphat the son of Hoʹri; <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> of the tribe of Judah, Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh; <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> of the tribe of Isʹsa·char, Iʹgal the son of Joseph; <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> of the tribe of Eʹphra·im, Ho·sheʹa the son of Nun; <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> of the tribe of Benjamin, Palʹti the son of Raʹphu; <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> of the tribe of Zebʹu·lun, Gadʹdi·el the son of Soʹdi; <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> of the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, Gadʹdi the son of Suʹsi; <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> of the tribe of Dan, Amʹmi·el the son of Ge·malʹli; <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> of the tribe of Ashʹer, Seʹthur the son of Miʹcha·el; <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> of the tribe of Naphʹta·li, Nahʹbi the son of Vophʹsi; <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> of the tribe of Gad, Geuʹel the son of Maʹchi. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses gave the name Joshua<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> to Ho·sheʹa the son of Nun.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When Moses was sending them to spy out the land of Caʹnaan, he said to them: “Go up there into the Negʹeb, and then go up into the mountainous region. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> You must see what kind of land it is and whether the people who are dwelling in it are strong or weak, few or many, <span id="page236" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="236" data-before-text="236"></span><span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and whether the land is good or bad and whether the cities they are dwelling in are encampments or fortifications. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And find out whether the land is rich<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> or poor<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> and whether there are trees in it or not. You must be courageous and take some of the fruitage of the land.” Now it was the season of the first ripe grapes.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Reʹhob, near Leʹbo-haʹmath.<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When they went up into the Negʹeb, they came to Hebʹron, where A·hiʹman, Sheʹshai, and Talʹmai, the Anʹa·kim, were living. Incidentally, Hebʹron had been built seven years before Zoʹan of Egypt. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When they came to the Valley<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> of Eshʹcol, there they cut down a branch with one cluster of grapes, which two of the men had to carry on a bar, as well as some of the pomegranates and figs. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They called that place the Valley<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> of Eshʹcol<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> because of the cluster that the Israelites cut down from there.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos66979"></span><span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At the end of 40 days, they returned from spying out the land. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So they came back to Moses and Aaron and all the assembly of the Israelites in the wilderness of Paʹran, at Kaʹdesh. They brought back a report to all the assembly and showed them the fruitage of the land. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> This is what they reported to Moses: “We entered the land into which you sent us, and it is indeed flowing with milk and honey, and this is its fruitage. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Nevertheless, the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the fortified cities are very great. We also saw the Anʹa·kim there. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The A·malʹek·ites are dwelling in the land of the Negʹeb, and the Hitʹtites, the Jebʹu·sites, and the Amʹor·ites are dwelling in the mountainous region, and the Caʹnaan·ites are dwelling by the sea and along the Jordan.”</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then Caʹleb tried to calm the people as they stood before Moses by saying: “Let us go up immediately, and we are sure to take possession of it, because we can surely conquer it.” <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But the men who went up with him said: “We are not able to go up against the people, because they are stronger than we are.” <span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And they kept on giving the Israelites a bad report about the land that they had spied out, saying: “The land that we passed through to spy out is a land that devours its inhabitants, and all the people whom we saw in it are men of extraordinary size. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And there we saw the Nephʹi·lim, the sons of Aʹnak, who are from<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> the Nephʹi·lim, and in comparison we seemed like grasshoppers, both to us and to them.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p491" data-pid="491"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:2</span></a> Or “to scout.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p492" data-pid="492"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:16</span></a> Or “Jehoshua,” meaning “Jehovah Is Salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p493" data-pid="493"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:20</span></a> Lit., “fat.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p494" data-pid="494"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:20</span></a> Lit., “lean.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p495" data-pid="495"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:21</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p496" data-pid="496"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:23</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p497" data-pid="497"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:24</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p498" data-pid="498"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:24</span></a> Meaning “Cluster of Grapes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p499" data-pid="499"><a href="1001061108-split13.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:33</span></a> Or “descendants of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
