<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_20.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="pos79762"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>Then God spoke all these words:</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You must not have any other gods besides me.<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a></p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “You must not make for yourself a carved image or a form<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> like anything that is in the heavens above or on the earth below or in the waters under the earth. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> You must not bow down to them nor be enticed to serve them, for I, Jehovah your God, am a God who requires exclusive devotion, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me, <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> but showing loyal love to the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments.</p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “You must not take up the name of Jehovah your God in a worthless way, for Jehovah will not leave unpunished the one who takes up His name in a worthless way.</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it sacred. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> You are to labor and do all your work for six days, <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> but the seventh day is a sabbath to Jehovah your God. You must not do any work, neither you nor your son nor your daughter nor your slave man nor your slave girl nor your domestic animal nor your foreign resident who is inside your settlements.<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For in six days Jehovah made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and he began to rest on the seventh day. That is why Jehovah blessed the Sabbath day and made it sacred.</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Honor your father and your mother, so that you may live a long time in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you.</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “You must not murder.</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="page140" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="140" data-before-text="140"></span><span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “You must not commit adultery.</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “You must not steal.</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “You must not testify falsely when you are a witness against your fellow man.</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “You must not desire your fellow man’s house. You must not desire your fellow man’s wife nor his slave man nor his slave girl nor his bull nor his donkey nor anything that belongs to your fellow man.”</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="pos81739"></span><span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now all the people were witnessing the thunder and lightning, the sound of the horn, and the mountain smoking; and seeing this made them tremble and stand at a distance. <span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So they said to Moses: “You speak with us, and we will listen, but do not let God speak with us, for fear that we will die.” <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Moses said to the people: “Do not be afraid, for the true God has come to put you to the test, in order that the fear of him may continue with you so that you may not sin.” <span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So the people kept standing at a distance, but Moses went near to the dark cloud where the true God was.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="pos82348"></span><span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “This is what you are to say to the Israelites, ‘You have seen for yourselves that I spoke with you from heaven. <span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You must not make gods of silver alongside me, and you must not make gods of gold for yourselves. <span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> An altar of earth you are to make for me, and you will sacrifice on it your burnt offerings, your communion sacrifices,<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> your flock, and your herd. In every place where I cause my name to be remembered I will come to you and I will bless you. <span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> If you make an altar of stones for me, you must not build it using stones cut with tools.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> For if you do use your chisel on it, you will profane it. <span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And you must not go up by steps to my altar, that your private parts<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> may not be exposed upon it.’</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p481" data-pid="481"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:3</span></a> Or “in defiance of me.” Lit., “against my face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p482" data-pid="482"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:4</span></a> Or “representation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p483" data-pid="483"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:10</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p484" data-pid="484"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:24</span></a> Or “your peace offerings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p485" data-pid="485"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:25</span></a> Or “using hewn stones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p486" data-pid="486"><a href="1001061106-split20.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 20:26</span></a> Lit., “your nakedness.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
