<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_10.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="pos34435"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>Re·ho·boʹam went to Sheʹchem, for all Israel had come to Sheʹchem to make him king. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> As soon as Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat heard of it (he was still in Egypt because he had fled on account of King Solʹo·mon), Jer·o·boʹam came back from Egypt. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then they sent for him, and Jer·o·boʹam and all Israel came to Re·ho·boʹam and said: <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Your father made our yoke harsh. But if you make the harsh service of your father easier and you lighten the heavy<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> yoke he put on us, we will serve you.”</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this he said to them: “Return to me after three days.” So the people went away. <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> King Re·ho·boʹam then consulted with the older men<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> who had served his father Solʹo·mon while he was alive, saying: “What advice would you give on how to reply to this people?” <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They answered him: “If you are good to this people <span id="page618" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="618" data-before-text="618"></span>and please them and give them a favorable answer, they will always be your servants.”</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> However, he rejected the advice that the older men<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> gave him, and he consulted with the young men who had grown up with him and who were now his attendants. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He asked them: “What advice do you offer on how we should reply to this people who have said to me, ‘Make the yoke your father put on us lighter’?” <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The young men who had grown up with him said to him: “This is what you should say to the people who have said to you, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you should make it lighter for us’; this is what you should tell them, ‘My little finger will be thicker than my father’s hips. <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> My father imposed a heavy yoke on you, but I will add to your yoke. My father punished you with whips, but I will do so with scourges.’”</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jer·o·boʹam and all the people came to Re·ho·boʹam on the third day, just as the king had said: “Return to me on the third day.” <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But the king answered them harshly. Thus King Re·ho·boʹam rejected the advice of the older men.<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying: “I will make your yoke heavier, and I will add to it. My father punished you with whips, but I will do so with scourges.” <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was caused by the true God, in order to carry out the word that Jehovah had spoken through A·hiʹjah the Shiʹlo·nite to Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As for all Israel, because the king refused to listen to them, the people replied to the king: “What share do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesʹse. Each one to your gods, O Israel! Now look after your own house, O David.” With that all Israel returned to their homes.<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But Re·ho·boʹam continued to reign over the Israelites living in the cities of Judah.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then King Re·ho·boʹam sent Ha·doʹram, who was in charge of those conscripted for forced labor, but the Israelites stoned him to death. King Re·ho·boʹam managed to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And the Israelites have been in revolt against the house of David down to this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p305" data-pid="305"><a href="1001061118-split10.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 10:4</span></a> Or “oppressive.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061118-split10.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 10:6</span></a> Or “the elders.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061118-split10.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 10:8</span></a> Or “the elders.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061118-split10.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 10:13</span></a> Or “the elders.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061118-split10.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 10:16</span></a> Lit., “tents.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
