<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 37</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061127"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Isaiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav23.xhtml">37</a> : <a href="bibleversenav23_37.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p968" data-pid="968" class="p968 sb"><span id="pos110401"></span><span id="chapter37"></span><span id="chapter37_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>37</strong> </span>As soon as King Hez·e·kiʹah heard this, he ripped his garments apart and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter37_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he sent E·liʹa·kim, who was in charge of the household,<span id="footnotesource273"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote273">*</a> Shebʹna the secretary, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah, the son of Aʹmoz. <span id="chapter37_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They said to him: “This is what Hez·e·kiʹah says, ‘This day is a day of distress, of rebuke,<span id="footnotesource274"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote274">*</a> and of disgrace; for the children are ready to be born,<span id="footnotesource275"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote275">*</a> but there is no strength to give birth. <span id="chapter37_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Perhaps Jehovah your God will hear the words of the Rabʹsha·keh, whom the king of As·syrʹi·a his lord sent to taunt the living God, and he will call him to account for the words that Jehovah your God has heard. So offer up a prayer in behalf of the remnant who have survived.’”</p>
<p id="p969" data-pid="969" class="p969 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So the servants of King Hez·e·kiʹah went in to Isaiah, <span id="chapter37_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and Isaiah said to them: “This is what you should say to your lord, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Do not be afraid because of the words that you heard, the words with which the attendants of the king of As·syrʹi·a blasphemed me. <span id="chapter37_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Here I am putting a thought in his mind,<span id="footnotesource276"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote276">*</a> and he will hear a report and return to his own land; and I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.”’”</p>
<p id="p970" data-pid="970" class="p970 sb"><span id="pos111667"></span><span id="chapter37_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> After the Rabʹsha·keh heard that the king of As·syrʹi·a had pulled away from Laʹchish, he returned to him and found him fighting against Libʹnah. <span id="chapter37_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now the king heard it said about King Tir·haʹkah of E·thi·oʹpi·a: “He has come out to fight against you.” When he heard this, he sent messengers again to Hez·e·kiʹah, saying: <span id="chapter37_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “This is what you should say to King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah, ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you by saying: “Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of As·syrʹi·a.” <span id="chapter37_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Look! You have heard what the kings of As·syrʹi·a did to all the lands by devoting them to destruction. Will you alone <span id="page985" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="985" data-before-text="985"></span>be rescued? <span id="chapter37_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Did the gods of the nations that my forefathers destroyed rescue them? Where are Goʹzan, Haʹran, Reʹzeph, and the people of Eʹden who were in Tel-asʹsar? <span id="chapter37_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Where is the king of Haʹmath, the king of Arʹpad, and the king of the cities of Seph·ar·vaʹim, and of Heʹna, and of Ivʹvah?’”</p>
<p id="p971" data-pid="971" class="p971 sb"><span id="pos112636"></span><span id="chapter37_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Hez·e·kiʹah took the letters out of the hand of the messengers and read them. Hez·e·kiʹah then went up to the house of Jehovah and spread them<span id="footnotesource277"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote277">*</a> out before Jehovah. <span id="chapter37_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And Hez·e·kiʹah began to pray to Jehovah and say: <span id="chapter37_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “O Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, sitting enthroned above<span id="footnotesource278"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote278">*</a> the cherubs, you alone are the true God of all the kingdoms of the earth. You made the heavens and the earth. <span id="chapter37_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Incline your ear, O Jehovah, and hear! Open your eyes, O Jehovah, and see! Hear all the words that Sen·nachʹer·ib has sent to taunt the living God. <span id="chapter37_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> It is a fact, O Jehovah, that the kings of As·syrʹi·a have devastated all the lands, as well as their own land. <span id="chapter37_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And they have thrown their gods into the fire, because they were not gods but the work of human hands, wood and stone. That is why they could destroy them. <span id="chapter37_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But now, O Jehovah our God, save us out of his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are God, O Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p972" data-pid="972" class="p972 sb"><span id="pos113636"></span><span id="chapter37_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Isaiah son of Aʹmoz then sent this message to Hez·e·kiʹah: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, ‘Because you prayed to me concerning King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a, <span id="chapter37_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> this is the word that Jehovah has spoken against him:</p>
<p id="p973" data-pid="973" class="p973 sz">“The virgin daughter of Zion despises you, she scoffs at you.</p>
<p id="p974" data-pid="974" class="p974 sz">The daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head at you.</p>
<p id="p975" data-pid="975" class="p975 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Whom have you taunted and blasphemed?</p>
<p id="p976" data-pid="976" class="p976 sz">Against whom have you raised your voice</p><p data-pid="976" class="p976 sz">And lifted your arrogant eyes?</p>
<p id="p977" data-pid="977" class="p977 sz">It is against the Holy One of Israel!</p>
<p id="p978" data-pid="978" class="p978 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Through your servants you have taunted Jehovah and said,</p><p data-pid="978" class="p978 sz">‘With the multitude of my war chariots</p><p data-pid="978" class="p978 sz">I will ascend the heights of mountains,</p><p data-pid="978" class="p978 sz">The remotest parts of Lebʹa·non.</p>
<p id="p979" data-pid="979" class="p979 sz">I will cut down its lofty cedars, its choice juniper trees.</p>
<p id="p980" data-pid="980" class="p980 sz">I will enter its highest retreats, its densest forests.</p>
<p id="p981" data-pid="981" class="p981 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> I will dig wells and drink waters;</p><p data-pid="981" class="p981 sz">I will dry up the streams<span id="footnotesource279"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote279">*</a> of Egypt with the soles of my feet.’</p>
<p id="p982" data-pid="982" class="p982 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Have you not heard? From long ago it was determined.<span id="footnotesource280"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote280">*</a></p>
<p id="p983" data-pid="983" class="p983 sz">From days gone by I have prepared<span id="footnotesource281"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote281">*</a> it.</p>
<p id="p984" data-pid="984" class="p984 sz">Now I will bring it about.</p>
<p id="p985" data-pid="985" class="p985 sz">You will turn fortified cities into desolate piles of ruins.</p>
<p id="p986" data-pid="986" class="p986 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Their inhabitants will be helpless;</p><p data-pid="986" class="p986 sz">They will be terrified and put to shame.</p>
<p id="p987" data-pid="987" class="p987 sz">They will become as vegetation of the field and green grass,</p><p data-pid="987" class="p987 sz">As grass of the roofs that is scorched by the east wind.</p>
<p id="p988" data-pid="988" class="p988 sl"><span id="page986" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="986" data-before-text="986"></span><span id="chapter37_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But I well know when you sit, when you go out, when you come in,</p><p data-pid="988" class="p988 sz">And when you are enraged against me,</p><p data-pid="988" class="p988 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Because your rage against me and your roaring have reached my ears.</p>
<p id="p989" data-pid="989" class="p989 sz">So I will put my hook in your nose and my bridle between your lips,</p><p data-pid="989" class="p989 sz">And I will lead you back the way you came.”</p>
<p id="p990" data-pid="990" class="p990 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “‘And this will be the sign for you:<span id="footnotesource282"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote282">*</a> This year you will eat what grows on its own;<span id="footnotesource283"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote283">*</a> and in the second year, you will eat grain that sprouts from that; but in the third year you will sow seed and reap, and you will plant vineyards and eat their fruitage. <span id="chapter37_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Those of the house of Judah who escape, those who are left, will take root downward and produce fruit upward. <span id="chapter37_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For a remnant will go out of Jerusalem and survivors from Mount Zion. The zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this.</p>
<p id="p991" data-pid="991" class="p991 sb"><span id="chapter37_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “‘Therefore this is what Jehovah says about the king of As·syrʹi·a:</p>
<p id="p992" data-pid="992" class="p992 sz">“He will not come into this city</p><p data-pid="992" class="p992 sz">Or shoot an arrow there</p><p data-pid="992" class="p992 sz">Or confront it with a shield</p><p data-pid="992" class="p992 sz">Or cast up a siege rampart against it.”’</p>
<p id="p993" data-pid="993" class="p993 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> ‘By the way he came he will return;</p><p data-pid="993" class="p993 sz">He will not come into this city,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p994" data-pid="994" class="p994 sl"><span id="chapter37_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> ‘I will defend this city and save it for my own sake</p><p data-pid="994" class="p994 sz">And for the sake of my servant David.’”</p>
<p id="p995" data-pid="995" class="p995 sb"><span id="pos116215"></span><span id="chapter37_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And the angel of Jehovah went out and struck down 185,000 men in the camp of the As·syrʹi·ans. When people rose up early in the morning, they saw all the dead bodies. <span id="chapter37_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> So King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a departed and returned to Ninʹe·veh and stayed there. <span id="chapter37_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And as he was bowing down at the house<span id="footnotesource284"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote284">*</a> of his god Nisʹroch, his own sons A·dramʹme·lech and Shar·eʹzer struck him down with the sword and then escaped to the land of Arʹa·rat. And his son Eʹsar-hadʹdon became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote273"><p id="p2312" data-pid="2312"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource273">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:2</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote274"><p id="p2313" data-pid="2313"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource274">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:3</span></a> Or “insult.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote275"><p id="p2314" data-pid="2314"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource275">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:3</span></a> Lit., “have come to the opening of the womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote276"><p id="p2315" data-pid="2315"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource276">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:7</span></a> Lit., “a spirit in him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote277"><p id="p2316" data-pid="2316"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource277">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:14</span></a> Lit., “it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote278"><p id="p2317" data-pid="2317"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource278">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:16</span></a> Or possibly, “between.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote279"><p id="p2318" data-pid="2318"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource279">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:25</span></a> Or “the Nile canals.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote280"><p id="p2319" data-pid="2319"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource280">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:26</span></a> Lit., “done.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote281"><p id="p2320" data-pid="2320"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource281">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:26</span></a> Or “formed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote282"><p id="p2321" data-pid="2321"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource282">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:30</span></a> That is, Hezekiah.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote283"><p id="p2322" data-pid="2322"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource283">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:30</span></a> Or “the growth from spilled kernels of grain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote284"><p id="p2323" data-pid="2323"><a href="1001061127-split37.xhtml#footnotesource284">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 37:38</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
