<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_23.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="pos101977"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>These are the last words of David:</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sz">“The word of David the son of Jesʹse,</p><p data-pid="236" class="p236 sz">And the word of the man who was raised on high,</p><p data-pid="236" class="p236 sz">The anointed of the God of Jacob,</p><p data-pid="236" class="p236 sz">The pleasant singer<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> of the songs of Israel.</p>
<p id="p237" data-pid="237" class="p237 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The spirit of Jehovah spoke through me;</p><p data-pid="237" class="p237 sz">His word was on my tongue.</p>
<p id="p238" data-pid="238" class="p238 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The God of Israel spoke;</p><p data-pid="238" class="p238 sz">To me the Rock of Israel said:</p>
<p id="p239" data-pid="239" class="p239 sz">‘When the one ruling over mankind is righteous,</p><p data-pid="239" class="p239 sz">Ruling in the fear of God,</p><p data-pid="239" class="p239 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> It is like the morning light when the sun shines,</p><p data-pid="239" class="p239 sz">A morning without clouds.</p>
<p id="p240" data-pid="240" class="p240 sz">It is like the brightness after the rain,</p><p data-pid="240" class="p240 sz">Making grass sprout from the earth.’</p>
<p id="p241" data-pid="241" class="p241 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Is not my house like that before God?</p>
<p id="p242" data-pid="242" class="p242 sz">For he has made an eternal covenant with me,</p><p data-pid="242" class="p242 sz">Arranged in every detail and secured.</p>
<p id="p243" data-pid="243" class="p243 sz">Because it means my complete salvation and all my delight,</p><p data-pid="243" class="p243 sz">Is that not why he makes it flourish?</p>
<p id="p244" data-pid="244" class="p244 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But worthless men are all thrown away like thornbushes,</p><p data-pid="244" class="p244 sz">For they cannot be taken with the hand.</p>
<p id="p245" data-pid="245" class="p245 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When a man touches them,</p><p data-pid="245" class="p245 sz">He should be fully armed with iron and the shaft of a spear,</p><p data-pid="245" class="p245 sz">And they should be completely burned up with fire in their place.”</p>
<p id="p246" data-pid="246" class="p246 sb"><span id="pos103089"></span><span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> These are the names of David’s mighty warriors: Joʹsheb-bas·sheʹbeth a Tah·cheʹmo·nite, the head of the three. He brandished his spear over 800 slain at one time. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Next to him, El·e·aʹzar the son of Doʹdo the son of A·hoʹhi was among the three mighty warriors with David when they taunted the Phi·lisʹtines. They had gathered there for the battle, and when the men of Israel retreated, <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> he stood his ground and kept striking down the Phi·lisʹtines until his arm grew weary and his hand became stiff from gripping the sword. So Jehovah brought <span id="page476" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="476" data-before-text="476"></span>about a great victory<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> on that day; and the people returned behind him to strip the slain.</p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Next to him was Shamʹmah the son of Aʹgee the Harʹa·rite. The Phi·lisʹtines gathered together at Leʹhi, where there was a plot of land full of lentils; and the people fled because of the Phi·lisʹtines. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But he took his stand in the middle of the field and defended it and kept striking down the Phi·lisʹtines, so that Jehovah brought about a great victory.<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a></p>
<p id="p248" data-pid="248" class="p248 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Three of the 30 headmen went down during the harvest to David at the cave of A·dulʹlam, and a company<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> of the Phi·lisʹtines was camped in the Valley<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> of Rephʹa·im. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> David was then in the stronghold, and an outpost of the Phi·lisʹtines was in Bethʹle·hem. <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then David expressed his longing: “If only I could have a drink of the water from the cistern by the gate of Bethʹle·hem!” <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At that the three mighty warriors forced their way into the camp of the Phi·lisʹtines and drew water from the cistern by the gate of Bethʹle·hem and brought it to David; but he refused to drink it and poured it out to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He said: “It is unthinkable on my part, O Jehovah, that I should do this! Should I drink the blood of the men going at the risk of their lives?”<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> So he refused to drink it. These are the things that his three mighty warriors did.</p>
<p id="p249" data-pid="249" class="p249 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> A·bishʹai the brother of Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah was the head of another three; he brandished his spear over 300 slain, and he had a reputation like the three. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Although he was the most distinguished of the other three and he was their chief, he did not attain to the rank of the first three.</p>
<p id="p250" data-pid="250" class="p250 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da was a courageous man<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> who performed many exploits in Kabʹze·el. He struck down the two sons of Arʹi·el of Moʹab, and he descended into a waterpit on a snowy day and killed a lion. <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He also struck down an Egyptian man of extraordinary size. Though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, he went against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. <span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> These things Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da did, and he had a reputation like that of the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Although he was distinguished even more than the thirty, he did not attain to the rank of the three. However, David appointed him over his own bodyguard.</p>
<p id="p251" data-pid="251" class="p251 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Asʹa·hel the brother of Joʹab was among the thirty: El·haʹnan the son of Doʹdo of Bethʹle·hem, <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Shamʹmah the Haʹrod·ite, E·liʹka the Haʹrod·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Heʹlez the Palʹtite, Iʹra the son of Ikʹkesh the Te·koʹite, <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Abi-eʹzer the Anʹa·thoth·ite, Me·bunʹnai the Huʹshath·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Zalʹmon the A·hoʹhite, Maʹha·rai the Ne·tophʹa·thite, <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Heʹleb the son of Baʹa·nah the Ne·tophʹa·thite, Itʹtai the son of Riʹbai of Gibʹe·ah of the Benʹja·min·ites, <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah a Pirʹa·thon·ite, Hidʹdai of the wadis<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> of Gaʹash, <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Aʹbi-alʹbon the Arʹbath·ite, Azʹma·veth the Bar-huʹmite, <span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> E·liʹah·ba the Sha·alʹbo·nite, the sons of Jaʹshen, Jonʹa·than, <span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Shamʹmah the Harʹa·rite, A·hiʹam the son of Shaʹrar the Harʹa·rite, <span id="page477" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="477" data-before-text="477"></span><span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> E·liphʹe·let the son of A·hasʹbai the son of the Ma·acʹa·thite, E·liʹam the son of A·hithʹo·phel the Giʹlon·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Hezʹro the Carʹmel·ite, Paʹa·rai the Arʹbite, <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Iʹgal the son of Nathan of Zoʹbah, Baʹni the Gadʹite, <span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Zeʹlek the Amʹmon·ite, Naʹha·rai the Be·erʹoth·ite, the armor-bearer of Joʹab the son of Ze·ruʹiah, <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Iʹra the Ithʹrite, Gaʹreb the Ithʹrite, <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> and U·riʹah the Hitʹtite—37 in all.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:1</span></a> Or “The pleasant one.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:10</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:12</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:13</span></a> Or “tent village.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:13</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:17</span></a> Or “souls?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:20</span></a> Lit., “the son of a man of valor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p427" data-pid="427"><a href="1001061114-split23.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:30</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
