<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_12.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos41998"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>So Jehovah sent Nathan to David. He came in to him and said: “There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The rich man had very many sheep and cattle; <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> but the poor man had nothing but one small female lamb, which he had bought. He cared for it, and it grew up together with him and his sons. It would eat from the little food he had and drink from his cup and sleep in his arms. It became as a daughter to him. <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Later a visitor came to the rich man, but he would not take any of his own sheep and cattle to prepare a meal for the traveler who had come to him. Instead, he took the poor man’s lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him.”</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this David grew very angry against the man, and he said to Nathan: “As surely as Jehovah is living, the man who did this deserves to die! <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he should pay for the lamb four times over, because he did this and showed no compassion.”</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Nathan said to David: “You are the man! This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘I myself anointed you as king over Israel, and I rescued you from the hand of Saul. <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I was willing to give you your master’s house and put your master’s wives in your arms, and I gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And as if that were not enough, I was willing to do much more for you. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Why did you despise the word of Jehovah by doing what is bad in <span id="page456" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="456" data-before-text="456"></span>his eyes? You struck down U·riʹah the Hitʹtite with the sword! Then you took his wife as your wife after you killed him by the sword of the Amʹmon·ites. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now a sword will never depart from your own house, because you despised me by taking the wife of U·riʹah the Hitʹtite as your wife.’ <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah says: ‘Here I am bringing against you calamity from within your own house; and before your own eyes, I will take your wives and give them to another man,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> and he will lie down with your wives in broad daylight.<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Although you acted in secret, I will do this in front of all Israel and in broad daylight.’”<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a></p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David then said to Nathan: “I have sinned against Jehovah.” Nathan replied to David: “Jehovah, in turn, forgives your sin.<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> You will not die. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Nevertheless, because you have treated Jehovah with utter disrespect in this matter, the son just born to you will certainly die.”</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos44334"></span><span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Nathan went to his own house.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb">And Jehovah struck the child whom U·riʹah’s wife had borne to David, and he became sick. <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> David pleaded with the true God in behalf of the boy. David went on a strict fast and would go in and spend the night lying on the ground. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So the elders of his house stood over him and tried to raise him up from the ground, but he refused and would not eat with them. <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> On the seventh day the child died, but David’s servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead. They said: “While the child was alive we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us. So how can we tell him that the child has died? He may do something terrible.”</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> When David saw that his servants were whispering to one another, he discerned that the child had died. David said to his servants: “Has the child died?” They replied: “He has died.” <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So David got up from the ground. He washed, rubbed himself with oil, changed his clothing, and went to the house of Jehovah and prostrated himself. Afterward, he went to his house<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> and asked for food to be brought to him, and he ate. <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> His servants asked him: “Why have you acted in this way? While the child was alive, you fasted and kept weeping; but as soon as the child died, you got up and ate food.” <span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> He replied: “While the child was alive, I fasted and kept weeping because I said to myself, ‘Who knows whether Jehovah may show me favor and let the child live?’ <span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now that he has died, why should I fast? Can I bring him back? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.”</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos45925"></span><span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then David comforted his wife Bath-sheʹba. He went in to her and lay down with her. In time she bore a son, and he was named Solʹo·mon.<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> And Jehovah loved him, <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jed·i·diʹah,<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> for the sake of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos46198"></span><span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Joʹab continued fighting against Rabʹbah of the Amʹmon·ites, and he captured the royal city.<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So Joʹab sent messengers to David and said: “I have fought against Rabʹbah, and I have captured the city <span id="page457" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="457" data-before-text="457"></span>of waters.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Now gather the rest of the troops and encamp against the city and capture it. Otherwise, I will be the one to capture the city, and it will be credited to me.”<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a></p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So David gathered all the troops and went to Rabʹbah and fought against it and captured it. <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then he took the crown of Malʹcam from its head. The weight of it was a talent<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> of gold, along with precious stones, and it was placed on David’s head. He also took a vast amount of spoil from the city. <span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And he brought out the people who were in it and put them to work at sawing stones, at working with sharp iron instruments and with iron axes, and at brickmaking. That was what he did to all the cities of the Amʹmon·ites. Finally David and all the troops returned to Jerusalem.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:11</span></a> Or “to your fellow man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:11</span></a> Lit., “to the eyes of this sun.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:12</span></a> Lit., “before the sun.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:13</span></a> Or “lets your sin pass by.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:20</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:24</span></a> From a Hebrew word meaning “Peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:25</span></a> Meaning “Beloved of Jah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:26</span></a> Or “the city of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p332" data-pid="332"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:27</span></a> Possibly referring to the water resources of the city.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p333" data-pid="333"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:28</span></a> Lit., “and my name will be called upon it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p334" data-pid="334"><a href="1001061114-split12.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 12:30</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
