<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Esther 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061121"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Esther</a>  <a href="biblechapternav17.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav17_4.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos11870"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>When Morʹde·cai learned of everything that had been done, he ripped his garments <span id="page692" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="692" data-before-text="692"></span>apart and put on sackcloth and ashes. Then he went out into the middle of the city, crying out loudly and bitterly. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He went only as far as the king’s gate, for no one was to enter the king’s gate wearing sackcloth. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And in every province<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> where the king’s word and his decree reached, there was great mourning among the Jews, along with fasting and weeping and wailing. Many were lying down in sackcloth and ashes. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When Esther’s female attendants and her eunuchs came in and told her, the queen was deeply distressed. Then she sent garments for Morʹde·cai to wear instead of his sackcloth, but he refused them. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this Esther summoned Haʹthach, one of the king’s eunuchs, whom he had appointed to serve her, and she ordered him to find out from Morʹde·cai what this meant and what was happening.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos12773"></span><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Haʹthach went out to Morʹde·cai in the public square of the city in front of the king’s gate. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Morʹde·cai told him about everything that had happened to him and the exact amount of money that Haʹman had promised to pay to the king’s treasury for the Jews to be destroyed. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He also gave him a copy of the written decree that had been issued in Shuʹshan<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> for their annihilation. He was to show it to Esther and explain it to her and instruct her to go in to the king to beg for his favor and to plead directly with him in behalf of her people.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Haʹthach came back and told Esther what Morʹde·cai had said. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Esther replied to Haʹthach with instructions to tell Morʹde·cai: <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “All the king’s servants and the people of the king’s provinces<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> are aware that if any man or woman goes into the king’s inner courtyard without being summoned, there is only one law that applies: He is to be put to death; he may live only if the king holds out to him the golden scepter. And I have not been summoned to the king now for 30 days.”</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When Morʹde·cai was told what Esther had said, <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> he replied to Esther: “Do not imagine that because you are in the king’s household you are any more likely to escape than all the other Jews. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance will come to the Jews from another source, but you and your father’s house will perish. And who knows whether it is for a time like this that you have attained to your royal status?”</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Esther replied to Morʹde·cai: <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Go, gather all the Jews who are found in Shuʹshan<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> and fast in my behalf. Do not eat or drink for three days, night and day. I along with my female attendants will also fast. I will go in to the king, which is against the law, and if I am to perish, I will perish.” <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So Morʹde·cai went his way and did all that Esther had instructed him to do.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p118" data-pid="118"><a href="1001061121-split4.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 4:3</span></a> Or “jurisdictional district.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p119" data-pid="119"><a href="1001061121-split4.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 4:8</span></a> Or “Susa.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p120" data-pid="120"><a href="1001061121-split4.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 4:11</span></a> Or “jurisdictional districts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p121" data-pid="121"><a href="1001061121-split4.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 4:16</span></a> Or “Susa.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
