<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_12.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos35499"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>Now concerning the spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You know that when you were people of the nations,<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> you were influenced and led astray to those voiceless idols, following wherever they might lead you. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now I would have you know that nobody when speaking by God’s spirit says: “Jesus is accursed!” and nobody can say: “Jesus is Lord!” except by holy spirit.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now there are different gifts, but there is the same spirit; <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and there are different ministries, and yet there is the same Lord; <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and there are different activities,<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> and yet it is the same God who performs them all in everyone. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But the manifestation of the spirit is given to each one for a beneficial purpose. <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For to one is given speech<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> of wisdom through the spirit, to another speech of knowledge according to the same spirit, <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> to another faith by the same spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one spirit, <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> to yet another operations of powerful works, to another prophesying, to another discernment of inspired expressions, to another different tongues,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> and to another interpretation of tongues. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But all these operations are performed by the very same <span id="page1538" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1538" data-before-text="1538"></span>spirit, distributing to each one respectively just as it wills.</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos36777"></span><span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For just as the body is one but has many members, and all the members of that body, although many, are one body, so too is the Christ. <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink one spirit.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For, indeed, the body is made up not of one member but of many. <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I am no part of the body,” that does not make it no part of the body. <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I am no part of the body,” that does not make it no part of the body. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If it were all hearing, where would the sense of smell be? <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But now God has arranged each of the body members just as he pleased.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> If they were all the same member, where would the body be? <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But now they are many members, yet one body. <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The eye cannot say to the hand, “I do not need you,” or again, the head cannot say to the feet, “I do not need you.” <span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> On the contrary, the members of the body that seem to be weaker are necessary, <span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and the parts of the body that we think to be less honorable we surround with greater honor, so our unseemly parts are treated with greater modesty, <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> whereas our attractive parts do not need anything. Nevertheless, God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that had a lack, <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> so that there should be no division in the body, but its members should have mutual concern for one another. <span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> If one member suffers, all the other members suffer with it; or if a member is glorified, all the other members rejoice with it.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Now you are Christ’s body, and each of you individually is a member. <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And God has assigned the respective ones in the congregation: first, apostles; second, prophets; third, teachers; then powerful works; then gifts of healings; helpful services; abilities to direct; different tongues. <span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Not all are apostles, are they? Not all are prophets, are they? Not all are teachers, are they? Not all perform powerful works, do they? <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Not all have gifts of healings, do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they? Not all are interpreters,<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> are they? <span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But keep striving for<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> the greater gifts. And yet I will show you a surpassing way.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p185" data-pid="185"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:2</span></a> That is, unbelievers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p186" data-pid="186"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:6</span></a> Or “operations.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p187" data-pid="187"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:8</span></a> Or “a message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p188" data-pid="188"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:10</span></a> Or “languages.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p189" data-pid="189"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:30</span></a> Or “translators.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p190" data-pid="190"><a href="1001061150-split12.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 12:31</span></a> Or “keep zealously seeking.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
