<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_23.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p786" data-pid="786" class="p786 sb"><span id="pos92693"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>“Woe to the shepherds who are destroying and scattering the sheep of my pasture!” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p787" data-pid="787" class="p787 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah the God of Israel says against the shepherds who are shepherding my people: “You have scattered my sheep; you kept dispersing them, and you have not turned your attention to them.”</p>
<p id="p788" data-pid="788" class="p788 sb">“So I will turn my attention to you because of your evil deeds,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p789" data-pid="789" class="p789 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Then I will gather together the remnant of my sheep from all the lands to which I have dispersed them, and I will bring them back to their pasture, and they will be fruitful and become many. <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And I will raise up over them shepherds who will really shepherd them. They will no longer be afraid or be terrified, and none will be missing,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p790" data-pid="790" class="p790 sb"><span id="pos93466"></span><span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Look! The days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “when I will raise up to David a righteous sprout.<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> And a king will reign and show insight and uphold justice and righteousness in the land. <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will reside in security. And this is the name by which he will be called: Jehovah Is Our Righteousness.”</p>
<p id="p791" data-pid="791" class="p791 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “However, the days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “when they will no longer say, ‘As surely as Jehovah is alive, who brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt!’ <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> but rather, ‘As surely as Jehovah is alive, who brought out and brought back the descendants of the house of Israel from the land of the north and from all the lands to which I had dispersed them,’ and they will dwell in their own land.”</p>
<p id="p792" data-pid="792" class="p792 sb"><span id="pos94238"></span><span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Concerning the prophets:</p>
<p id="p793" data-pid="793" class="p793 sz">My heart is broken within me.</p>
<p id="p794" data-pid="794" class="p794 sz">All my bones are shaking.</p>
<p id="p795" data-pid="795" class="p795 sz">I am like a man who is drunk</p><p data-pid="795" class="p795 sz">And like a man overcome by wine,</p><p data-pid="795" class="p795 sz"><span id="page1069" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1069" data-before-text="1069"></span>Because of Jehovah and because of his holy words.</p>
<p id="p796" data-pid="796" class="p796 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For the land is full of adulterers;</p><p data-pid="796" class="p796 sz">Because of the curse the land has gone into mourning</p><p data-pid="796" class="p796 sz">And the pastures of the wilderness have dried up.</p>
<p id="p797" data-pid="797" class="p797 sz">Their course is evil, and they abuse their power.</p>
<p id="p798" data-pid="798" class="p798 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Both the prophet and the priest are polluted.<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a></p>
<p id="p799" data-pid="799" class="p799 sz">Even in my own house I have found their wickedness,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p800" data-pid="800" class="p800 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “So their path will become slippery and dark;</p><p data-pid="800" class="p800 sz">They will be pushed and will fall.</p>
<p id="p801" data-pid="801" class="p801 sz">For I will bring calamity on them</p><p data-pid="801" class="p801 sz">In the year of reckoning,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p802" data-pid="802" class="p802 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “And in the prophets of Sa·marʹi·a I have seen what is repulsive.</p>
<p id="p803" data-pid="803" class="p803 sz">Their prophecies are incited by Baʹal,</p><p data-pid="803" class="p803 sz">And they lead my people Israel astray.</p>
<p id="p804" data-pid="804" class="p804 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen horrible things.</p>
<p id="p805" data-pid="805" class="p805 sz">They commit adultery and walk in falsehood;</p><p data-pid="805" class="p805 sz">They encourage<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> evildoers,</p><p data-pid="805" class="p805 sz">And they do not turn away from their wickedness.</p>
<p id="p806" data-pid="806" class="p806 sz">To me they are all like Sodʹom,</p><p data-pid="806" class="p806 sz">And her inhabitants are like Go·morʹrah.”</p>
<p id="p807" data-pid="807" class="p807 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies says against the prophets:</p>
<p id="p808" data-pid="808" class="p808 sz">“Here I am making them eat wormwood</p><p data-pid="808" class="p808 sz">And giving them poisoned water to drink.</p>
<p id="p809" data-pid="809" class="p809 sz">For from the prophets of Jerusalem apostasy has spread throughout the land.”</p>
<p id="p810" data-pid="810" class="p810 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p811" data-pid="811" class="p811 sz">“Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are prophesying to you.</p>
<p id="p812" data-pid="812" class="p812 sz">They are deluding you.<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a></p>
<p id="p813" data-pid="813" class="p813 sz">The vision they speak is from their own heart,</p><p data-pid="813" class="p813 sz">Not from the mouth of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p814" data-pid="814" class="p814 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They are saying again and again to those who disrespect me,</p><p data-pid="814" class="p814 sz">‘Jehovah has said: “You will enjoy peace.”’</p>
<p id="p815" data-pid="815" class="p815 sz">And to everyone who follows his own stubborn heart they say,</p><p data-pid="815" class="p815 sz">‘No calamity will come upon you.’</p>
<p id="p816" data-pid="816" class="p816 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For who has stood in the inner circle of Jehovah</p><p data-pid="816" class="p816 sz">To see and hear his word?</p>
<p id="p817" data-pid="817" class="p817 sz">Who has paid attention to his word in order to hear it?</p>
<p id="p818" data-pid="818" class="p818 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Look! The windstorm of Jehovah will burst out in fury;</p><p data-pid="818" class="p818 sz">Like a whirling tempest it will whirl down on the head of the wicked.</p>
<p id="p819" data-pid="819" class="p819 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The anger of Jehovah will not turn back</p><p data-pid="819" class="p819 sz">Until he has carried out and accomplished the intentions of his heart.</p>
<p id="p820" data-pid="820" class="p820 sz">In the final part of the days you will clearly understand this.</p>
<p id="p821" data-pid="821" class="p821 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I did not send the prophets, yet they ran.</p>
<p id="p822" data-pid="822" class="p822 sz">I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied.</p>
<p id="p823" data-pid="823" class="p823 sl"><span id="page1070" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1070" data-before-text="1070"></span><span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But if they had stood in my inner circle,</p><p data-pid="823" class="p823 sz">They would have made my people hear my words</p><p data-pid="823" class="p823 sz">And would have caused them to turn back from their bad way and their evil deeds.”</p>
<p id="p824" data-pid="824" class="p824 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “Am I only a God nearby,” declares Jehovah, “and not a God also from far away?”</p>
<p id="p825" data-pid="825" class="p825 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Can any man hide in a concealed place where I cannot see him?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p826" data-pid="826" class="p826 sz">“Do I not fill the heavens and the earth?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p827" data-pid="827" class="p827 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “I have heard the prophets who are prophesying lies in my name say, ‘I had a dream! I had a dream!’ <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> How long will this continue in the heart of the prophets, to prophesy lies? They are prophets of the deceit of their own heart. <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> They intend to make my people forget my name by the dreams they relate to one another, just as their fathers forgot my name because of Baʹal. <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Let the prophet who has a dream relate the dream, but the one who has my word should speak my word truthfully.”</p>
<p id="p828" data-pid="828" class="p828 sb">“What does the straw have in common with the grain?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p829" data-pid="829" class="p829 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Is not my word just like a fire,” declares Jehovah, “and like a forge hammer that smashes the crag?”</p>
<p id="p830" data-pid="830" class="p830 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “So here I am against the prophets,” declares Jehovah, “who steal my words from one another.”</p>
<p id="p831" data-pid="831" class="p831 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Here I am against the prophets,” declares Jehovah, “those who use their tongue to say, ‘He declares!’”</p>
<p id="p832" data-pid="832" class="p832 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “Here I am against the prophets of lying dreams,” declares Jehovah, “who relate them and lead my people astray because of their lies and their boasting.”</p>
<p id="p833" data-pid="833" class="p833 sb">“But I did not send them or command them. So they will not benefit this people at all,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p834" data-pid="834" class="p834 sb"><span id="pos98252"></span><span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “And when this people or a prophet or a priest asks you, ‘What is the burden<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> of Jehovah?’ you should reply to them, ‘“You people are the burden! And I will cast you off,” declares Jehovah.’ <span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> As for the prophet or the priest or the people who say, ‘This is the burden<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> of Jehovah!’ I will turn my attention on that man and on his household. <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> This is what each of you is saying to his fellow and to his brother, ‘What has Jehovah answered? And what has Jehovah spoken?’ <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But the burden<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> of Jehovah you should mention no more, for the burden<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> is each one’s own word, and you have changed the words of the living God, Jehovah of armies, our God.</p>
<p id="p835" data-pid="835" class="p835 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “This is what you will say to the prophet, ‘What answer has Jehovah given you? And what has Jehovah spoken? <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And if you keep saying, “The burden<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> of Jehovah!” this is what Jehovah says: “Because of your saying, ‘This word is the burden<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> of Jehovah,’ after I told you, ‘You must not say: “The burden<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> of Jehovah!”’ <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> look! I will lift you up and throw you away from my presence, both you and the city that I gave to you and your forefathers. <span id="chapter23_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And I will bring on you everlasting disgrace and everlasting humiliation, which will not be forgotten.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p1777" data-pid="1777"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:5</span></a> Or “heir.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p1778" data-pid="1778"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:11</span></a> Or “apostate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p1779" data-pid="1779"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:14</span></a> Lit., “strengthen the hands of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p1780" data-pid="1780"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:16</span></a> Or “They are filling you with empty hopes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p1781" data-pid="1781"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:33</span></a> Or “burdensome message.” The Hebrew word has a double meaning: “a weighty divine pronouncement” or “something burdensome.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p1782" data-pid="1782"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:34</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p1783" data-pid="1783"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:36</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p1784" data-pid="1784"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:36</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p1785" data-pid="1785"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:38</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p1786" data-pid="1786"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:38</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p1787" data-pid="1787"><a href="1001061128-split23.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 23:38</span></a> Or “burdensome message.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
