<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">32</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_32.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p269" data-pid="269" class="p269 sb"><span id="pos127592"></span><span id="chapter32"></span><span id="chapter32_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>32</strong> </span>Jacob then went on his way, and the angels of God met up with him. <span id="chapter32_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> As soon as he saw them, Jacob said: “This is the camp of God!” So he named that place Ma·ha·naʹim.<span id="footnotesource244"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote244">*</a></p>
<p id="p270" data-pid="270" class="p270 sb"><span id="pos127768"></span><span id="chapter32_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Jacob sent messengers ahead of him to his brother Eʹsau in the land of Seʹir, the territory<span id="footnotesource245"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote245">*</a> of Eʹdom, <span id="chapter32_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and he commanded them: “This is what you will say to my lord, to Eʹsau, ‘This is what your servant Jacob says: “I have resided<span id="footnotesource246"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote246">*</a> with Laʹban for a long time until now. <span id="chapter32_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And I have acquired bulls, donkeys, sheep, and male and female servants, and I send this message to inform my lord, in order to find favor in your eyes.”’”</p>
<p id="p271" data-pid="271" class="p271 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In time the messengers returned to Jacob, saying: “We met your brother Eʹsau, and he is now on his way to meet you, and there are 400 men with him.” <span id="chapter32_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And Jacob became very frightened and anxious. So he divided the people <span id="page85" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="85" data-before-text="85"></span>who were with him, as well as the flocks, the cattle, and the camels, into two camps. <span id="chapter32_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He said: “If Eʹsau attacks the one camp, then the other camp will be able to escape.”</p>
<p id="p272" data-pid="272" class="p272 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> After that Jacob said: “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, you who are saying to me, ‘Return to your land and to your relatives, and I will deal well with you,’ <span id="chapter32_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I am unworthy of all the loyal love and of all the faithfulness that you have shown toward your servant, for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan and now I have become two camps. <span id="chapter32_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Save me, I pray you, from the hand of my brother Eʹsau, for I am afraid of him that he may come and attack me, as well as the mothers and their children. <span id="chapter32_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And you have said: ‘I will certainly deal well with you, and I will make your offspring<span id="footnotesource247"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote247">*</a> like the grains of sand of the sea, which are too numerous to count.’”</p>
<p id="p273" data-pid="273" class="p273 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And he spent the night there. Then he took some of his possessions as a gift for Eʹsau his brother: <span id="chapter32_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> 200 female goats, 20 male goats, 200 female sheep, 20 rams, <span id="chapter32_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> 30 camels nursing their young, 40 cows, 10 bulls, 20 female donkeys and 10 full-grown male donkeys.</p>
<p id="p274" data-pid="274" class="p274 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He handed them over to his servants, one drove after another, and he said to his servants: “Cross over ahead of me, and you are to set a space between one drove and the next.” <span id="chapter32_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He also commanded the first one: “In case Eʹsau my brother should meet you and ask, ‘To whom do you belong, and where are you going, and to whom do these ahead of you belong?’ <span id="chapter32_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> then you should say, ‘To your servant Jacob. It is a gift sent to my lord, to Eʹsau, and look! he himself is also behind us.’” <span id="chapter32_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And he commanded also the second, the third, and all those following the droves: “According to this word, you are to speak to Eʹsau when you meet him. <span id="chapter32_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And you should also say, ‘Here is your servant Jacob behind us.’” For he said to himself: ‘If I appease him by sending a gift ahead of me, then afterward when I see him, he may give me a kindly reception.’ <span id="chapter32_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So the gift crossed over ahead of him, but he himself spent the night in the camp.</p>
<p id="p275" data-pid="275" class="p275 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Later during that night, he rose and took his two wives and his two female servants and his 11 young sons and crossed over the ford of Jabʹbok. <span id="chapter32_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So he took them and brought them across the stream,<span id="footnotesource248"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote248">*</a> and he brought over everything else he had.</p>
<p id="p276" data-pid="276" class="p276 sb"><span id="pos130843"></span><span id="chapter32_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Finally Jacob was left by himself. Then a man began to wrestle with him until the dawn broke. <span id="chapter32_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When he saw that he had not prevailed over him, he touched the socket of his hip; and the socket of Jacob’s hip was dislocated during his wrestling with him. <span id="chapter32_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> After that he said: “Let me go, for the dawn is breaking.” To this he said: “I am not going to let you go until you bless me.” <span id="chapter32_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So he said to him: “What is your name?” to which he said: “Jacob.” <span id="pos131320"></span><span id="chapter32_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then he said: “Your name will no longer be Jacob but Israel,<span id="footnotesource249"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote249">*</a> for you have contended with God and with men and you have at last prevailed.” <span id="chapter32_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In turn Jacob inquired: “Tell me, please, your name.” However, he said: “Why is it that you ask my name?” With that he blessed <span id="page86" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="86" data-before-text="86"></span>him there. <span id="chapter32_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So Jacob named the place Pe·niʹel,<span id="footnotesource250"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote250">*</a> for he said, “I have seen God face-to-face, yet my life<span id="footnotesource251"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote251">*</a> was preserved.”</p>
<p id="p277" data-pid="277" class="p277 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And the sun rose upon him as soon as he passed by Pe·nuʹel,<span id="footnotesource252"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote252">*</a> but he was limping because of his hip. <span id="chapter32_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> That is why to this day the sons of Israel are not accustomed to eat the thigh sinew,<span id="footnotesource253"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote253">*</a> which is on the socket of the hip joint, because he touched the socket of Jacob’s hip joint by the thigh sinew.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote244"><p id="p711" data-pid="711"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource244">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:2</span></a> Meaning “Two Camps.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote245"><p id="p712" data-pid="712"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource245">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:3</span></a> Lit., “field.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote246"><p id="p713" data-pid="713"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource246">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:4</span></a> Or “resided as a foreigner.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote247"><p id="p714" data-pid="714"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource247">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:12</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote248"><p id="p715" data-pid="715"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource248">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:23</span></a> Or “torrent valley; wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote249"><p id="p716" data-pid="716"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource249">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:28</span></a> Meaning “Contender (Perseverer) With God” or “God Contends.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote250"><p id="p717" data-pid="717"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource250">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:30</span></a> Meaning “Face of God.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote251"><p id="p718" data-pid="718"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource251">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:30</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote252"><p id="p719" data-pid="719"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource252">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:31</span></a> Or “Peniel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote253"><p id="p720" data-pid="720"><a href="1001061105-split32.xhtml#footnotesource253">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 32:32</span></a> Lit., “the sinew of the thigh nerve.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
