<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_14.xhtml">1 - 72</a></p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos67563"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Now the Passover and the Festival of Unleavened Bread was two days later. And the chief priests and the scribes <span id="page1371" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1371" data-before-text="1371"></span>were looking for a way to seize<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> him by cunning<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> and kill him; <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> for they were saying: “Not at the festival; perhaps there might be an uproar of the people.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos67849"></span><span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And while he was at Bethʹa·ny dining<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came with an alabaster jar of perfumed oil, genuine nard, very expensive. She broke open the alabaster jar and began pouring it on his head. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> At this some said to one another indignantly: “Why has this perfumed oil been wasted? <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For this perfumed oil could have been sold for more than 300 de·narʹi·i<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> and the money given to the poor!” And they were greatly annoyed with<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> her. <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But Jesus said: “Let her alone. Why do you try to make trouble for her? She did a fine deed toward me. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For you always have the poor with you, and you can do them good whenever you want to, but you will not always have me. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> She did what she could; she poured perfumed oil on my body beforehand, in view of the burial. <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, wherever the good news is preached in all the world, what this woman did will also be told in memory of her.”</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos68783"></span><span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And Judas Is·carʹi·ot, one of the Twelve, went off to the chief priests in order to betray him to them. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When they heard it, they were delighted and promised to give him silver money. So he began seeking an opportunity to betray him.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="pos69031"></span><span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now on the first day of the Unleavened Bread, when they customarily offered up the Passover sacrifice, his disciples said to him: “Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?” <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> With that he sent two of his disciples and said to them: “Go into the city, and a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you. Follow him, <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and wherever he goes inside, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says: “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’ <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. Prepare it for us there.” <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So the disciples went out, and they entered the city and found it just as he said to them, and they prepared for the Passover.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After evening had fallen, he came with the Twelve. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And as they were reclining at the table and eating, Jesus said: “Truly I say to you, one of you who is eating with me will betray me.” <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> They began to be grieved and to say to him one by one: “It is not I, is it?” <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He said to them: “It is one of the Twelve, the one dipping with me into the bowl. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For the Son of man is going away, just as it is written about him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos70362"></span><span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And as they continued eating, he took a loaf, said a blessing, broke it, and gave it to them, saying: “Take it; this means my body.” <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And taking a cup, he offered thanks and gave it to them, and they all drank out of it. <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And he said to them: “This means my ‘blood of the covenant,’ which is to be poured out in behalf of many. <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, I will by no means drink anymore of the product of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the Kingdom of God.” <span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Finally, after singing <span id="page1372" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1372" data-before-text="1372"></span>praises,<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> they went out to the Mount of Olives.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos70943"></span><span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And Jesus said to them: “You will all be stumbled, for it is written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered about.’ <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But after I have been raised up, I will go ahead of you into Galʹi·lee.” <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But Peter said to him: “Even if all the others are stumbled, I will not be.” <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> At that Jesus said to him: “Truly I say to you that today, yes, on this very night, before a rooster crows twice, you will disown me three times.” <span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But he kept insisting: “If I have to die with you, I will by no means disown you.” Also, all the others began to say the same thing.</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="pos71553"></span><span id="chapter14_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So they came to a spot named Geth·semʹa·ne, and he said to his disciples: “Sit down here while I pray.” <span id="chapter14_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And he took Peter and James and John along with him, and he began to feel deeply distressed<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> and to be greatly troubled. <span id="chapter14_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> He said to them: “I am<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> deeply grieved, even to death. Stay here and keep on the watch.” <span id="chapter14_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And going a little way forward, he fell to the ground and began praying that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him. <span id="chapter14_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And he said: <em>“Abba,</em><span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> Father, all things are possible for you; remove this cup from me. Yet, not what I want, but what you want.” <span id="chapter14_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> He returned and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter: “Simon, are you sleeping? Did you not have the strength to keep on the watch for one hour? <span id="chapter14_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Keep on the watch and pray continually, so that you do not come into temptation. The spirit, of course, is eager,<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> but the flesh is weak.” <span id="chapter14_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And he went away again and prayed, saying the same thing. <span id="chapter14_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were weighed down, so they did not know what to answer him. <span id="chapter14_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And he returned the third time and said to them: “At such a time as this, you are sleeping and resting! It is enough! The hour has come! Look! The Son of man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. <span id="chapter14_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Get up, let us go. Look! My betrayer has drawn near.”</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos72946"></span><span id="chapter14_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. <span id="chapter14_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Now his betrayer had given them an agreed sign, saying: “Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one; take him into custody, and lead him away under guard.” <span id="chapter14_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> And he came straight up and approached him and said, “Rabbi!” and gave him a tender kiss. <span id="chapter14_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> So they seized him and took him into custody. <span id="chapter14_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> However, one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest, taking off his ear. <span id="chapter14_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> But in response Jesus said to them: “Did you come out to arrest me with swords and clubs as against a robber? <span id="chapter14_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and yet you did not take me into custody. Nevertheless, this is to fulfill the Scriptures.”</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> And they all abandoned him and fled. <span id="chapter14_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> However, a certain young man wearing only a fine linen garment over his naked body began to follow him nearby, and they tried to seize him, <span id="chapter14_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> but he left his linen <span id="page1373" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1373" data-before-text="1373"></span>garment behind and got away naked.<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a></p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos74092"></span><span id="chapter14_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> They now led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes assembled. <span id="chapter14_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> But Peter, from a good distance, followed him as far as into the courtyard of the high priest; and he was sitting together with the house attendants and warming himself before a bright fire. <span id="chapter14_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> Now the chief priests and the entire Sanʹhe·drin were looking for testimony against Jesus in order to put him to death, but they were not finding any. <span id="chapter14_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Many, indeed, were giving false witness against him, but their testimonies were not in agreement. <span id="chapter14_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Also, certain ones were standing up and bearing false witness against him, saying: <span id="chapter14_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> “We heard him say, ‘I will throw down this temple that was made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands.’” <span id="chapter14_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> But even on these grounds, their testimony was not in agreement.</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> Then the high priest stood up in their midst and questioned Jesus, saying: “Do you say nothing in reply? What is it these men are testifying against you?” <span id="chapter14_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> But he kept silent and made no reply at all. Again the high priest began to question him and said to him: “Are you the Christ the Son of the Blessed One?” <span id="chapter14_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> Then Jesus said: “I am; and you will see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven.” <span id="chapter14_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> At this the high priest ripped his garments and said: “What further need do we have of witnesses? <span id="chapter14_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> You heard the blasphemy. What is your decision?”<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> They all condemned him as deserving of death. <span id="chapter14_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> And some started to spit on him and to cover his face and hit him with their fists and say to him: “Prophesy!” And slapping him in the face, the court attendants took him.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos75839"></span><span id="chapter14_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> Now while Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came. <span id="chapter14_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> On seeing Peter warming himself, she looked straight at him and said: “You too were with the Naz·a·reneʹ, this Jesus.” <span id="chapter14_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> But he denied it, saying: “Neither do I know him nor do I understand what you are talking about,” and he went outside to the entryway.<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> There the servant girl saw him and again began to say to those standing by: “This is one of them.” <span id="chapter14_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> Again he was denying it. And after a little while, those standing by again began saying to Peter: “Certainly you are one of them, for you are, in fact, a Gal·i·leʹan.” <span id="chapter14_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> But he started to curse and swear: “I do not know this man of whom you speak!” <span id="chapter14_verse72"></span><strong><sup>72</sup></strong> Immediately a rooster crowed a second time, and Peter recalled what Jesus had said to him: “Before a rooster crows twice, you will disown me three times.” And he broke down and began to weep.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p207" data-pid="207"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:1</span></a> Or “arrest.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p208" data-pid="208"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:1</span></a> Or “crafty device.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p209" data-pid="209"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:3</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p210" data-pid="210"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:5</span></a> See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p211" data-pid="211"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:5</span></a> Or “they spoke angrily to; they scolded.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p212" data-pid="212"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:26</span></a> Or “hymns; psalms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p213" data-pid="213"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:33</span></a> Or “feel stunned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p214" data-pid="214"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:34</span></a> Or “My soul is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p215" data-pid="215"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:36</span></a> A Hebrew or an Aramaic word meaning “O Father!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p216" data-pid="216"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:38</span></a> Or “willing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p217" data-pid="217"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:52</span></a> Or “lightly clad; in an undergarment only.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p218" data-pid="218"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:64</span></a> Or “What do you think?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p219" data-pid="219"><a href="1001061145-split14.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 14:68</span></a> Or “vestibule.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
