<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">28</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_28.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos98677"></span><span id="chapter28"></span><span id="chapter28_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>28</strong> </span>Aʹhaz was 20 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 16 years in Jerusalem. He did not do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes as David his forefather had done. <span id="chapter28_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Instead, he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and he even made metal statues<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> of the Baʹals. <span id="chapter28_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Moreover, he made sacrificial smoke in the Valley of the Son of Hinʹnom<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> and burned up his sons in the fire, following the detestable practices of the nations that Jehovah had driven out from before the Israelites. <span id="chapter28_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He also kept sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places, on the hills, and under every luxuriant tree.</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="pos99302"></span><span id="chapter28_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So Jehovah his God gave him into the hand of the king of Syria, so that they defeated him and carried off a great number of captives and brought them to Damascus. He was also given into the hand of the king of Israel, who inflicted on him a great slaughter. <span id="chapter28_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For Peʹkah the son of Rem·a·liʹah killed in Judah 120,000 in one day, all brave men, because they had abandoned Jehovah the God of their forefathers. <span id="chapter28_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And Zichʹri, an Eʹphra·im·ite warrior, killed the king’s son Ma·a·seiʹah and Az·riʹkam, who was in charge of the palace,<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> and El·kaʹnah, who was second to the king. <span id="chapter28_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Moreover, the Israelites took 200,000 of their brothers captive—women, sons, and daughters; they also seized a great deal of spoil, and they took the spoil to Sa·marʹi·a.</p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="pos100065"></span><span id="chapter28_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But a prophet of Jehovah named Oʹded was there. He went out before the army that was coming to Sa·marʹi·a and said to them: “Look! It was because Jehovah the God of your forefathers was angry with Judah that he gave them into your hand, and you slaughtered them with a fury that has <span id="page639" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="639" data-before-text="639"></span>reached clear to the heavens. <span id="chapter28_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And now you intend to make the people of Judah and Jerusalem your male and female servants. Nevertheless, are you not also guilty before Jehovah your God? <span id="chapter28_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now listen to me and return the captives whom you took from your brothers, for Jehovah’s burning anger is against you.”</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At that some of the chiefs of the Eʹphra·im·ites, Az·a·riʹah the son of Je·ho·haʹnan, Ber·e·chiʹah the son of Me·shilʹle·moth, Je·hiz·kiʹah the son of Shalʹlum, and A·maʹsa the son of Hadʹlai, confronted those coming in from the military campaign, <span id="chapter28_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and they said to them: “Do not bring the captives in here, for it will make us guilty before Jehovah. What you intend to do will add to our sins and to our guilt, for our guilt is already great and there is burning anger against Israel.” <span id="chapter28_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So the armed soldiers handed over the captives and the plunder to the princes and the entire congregation. <span id="chapter28_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then the men who had been designated by name rose up and took hold of the captives, and they provided clothes from the spoil for all those among them who were naked. So they clothed them and gave them sandals, food and drink, and oil for their skin. Furthermore, they transported the feeble on donkeys and brought them to their brothers in Jerʹi·cho, the city of palm trees. After that they returned to Sa·marʹi·a.</p>
<p id="p165" data-pid="165" class="p165 sb"><span id="pos101714"></span><span id="chapter28_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At that time King Aʹhaz asked the kings of As·syrʹi·a for help. <span id="chapter28_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And once again the Eʹdom·ites invaded and attacked Judah and carried off captives. <span id="chapter28_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The Phi·lisʹtines also made a raid on the cities of the She·pheʹlah and the Negʹeb of Judah and captured Beth-sheʹmesh, Aiʹja·lon, Ge·deʹroth, Soʹco and its dependent<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> towns, Timʹnah and its dependent towns, and Gimʹzo and its dependent towns; and they settled there. <span id="chapter28_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jehovah humbled Judah because of King Aʹhaz of Israel, for he had let Judah go unrestrained, resulting in great unfaithfulness toward Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="pos102305"></span><span id="chapter28_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> King Tilʹgath-pil·neʹser of As·syrʹi·a eventually came against him and caused him distress rather than strengthening him. <span id="chapter28_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For Aʹhaz had stripped the house of Jehovah and the house<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a> of the king and the houses of the princes and made a gift to the king of As·syrʹi·a; but it was of no help to him. <span id="chapter28_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And during his time of distress, King Aʹhaz acted even more unfaithfully toward Jehovah. <span id="chapter28_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He began to sacrifice to the gods of Damascus that had defeated him, and he went on to say: “Because the gods of the kings of Syria are helping them, I will sacrifice to them so that they may help me.” But they caused him and all Israel to stumble. <span id="chapter28_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Furthermore, Aʹhaz collected the utensils of the house of the true God; he then cut to pieces the utensils of the house of the true God, closed the doors of the house of Jehovah, and made altars for himself in every corner of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter28_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And in all the cities of Judah, he made high places for making sacrificial smoke to other gods, and he offended Jehovah the God of his forefathers.</p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> As for the rest of his history, all his dealings from beginning to end, there it is written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and of Israel. <span id="chapter28_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then Aʹhaz was laid to rest with his forefathers, and they buried him in <span id="page640" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="640" data-before-text="640"></span>the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring him into the burial places of the kings of Israel. And his son Hez·e·kiʹah became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061118-split28.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 28:2</span></a> Or “molten statues.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p427" data-pid="427"><a href="1001061118-split28.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 28:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>, “Gehenna.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p428" data-pid="428"><a href="1001061118-split28.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 28:7</span></a> Lit., “house.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p429" data-pid="429"><a href="1001061118-split28.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 28:18</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p430" data-pid="430"><a href="1001061118-split28.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 28:21</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
