<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_8.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos26719"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>When Samuel had grown old, he appointed his sons as judges for Israel. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second, A·biʹjah; they were judges in Beʹer-sheʹba. <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But his sons did not walk in his ways; they were inclined to pursue dishonest profit, they accepted bribes, and they perverted justice.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In time all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Raʹmah. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They said to him: “Look! You have grown old, but your sons are not walking in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the other nations.” <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But it displeased<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> Samuel when they said: “Give us a king to judge us.” Then Samuel prayed to Jehovah, <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and Jehovah said to Samuel: “Listen to everything the people say to you; for it is not you whom they have rejected, but it is I whom they have rejected as their king. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They are doing just as they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt until this day; they keep forsaking me and serving other gods, and that is what they are doing to you. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now listen to them. However, you should solemnly warn them; tell them what the king who rules over them will have the right to demand.”</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos27907"></span><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Samuel told the people who were asking him for a king all the words of Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He said: “This is what the king who rules over you will have the right to demand: He will take your sons and put <span id="page407" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="407" data-before-text="407"></span>them in his chariots and make them his horsemen, and some will have to run before his chariots. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And he will appoint for himself chiefs over thousands and chiefs over fifties, and some will do his plowing, reap his harvest, and make his weapons of war and equipment for his chariots. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He will take your daughters to be ointment mixers,<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> cooks, and bakers. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He will take the best of your fields, your vineyards, and your olive groves, and he will give them to his servants. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He will take the tenth of your grainfields and your vineyards, and he will give it to his court officials and his servants. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And he will take your male and female servants, your best herds, and your donkeys, and he will use them for his work. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you will become his servants. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The day will come when you will cry out because of the king you have chosen for yourselves, but Jehovah will not answer you in that day.”</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="pos29101"></span><span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, the people refused to listen to what Samuel told them, and they said: “No, we are determined to have a king over us. <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then we will be like all the other nations, and our king will judge us and lead us and fight our battles.” <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After Samuel heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the hearing of Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Samuel: “Listen to them, and appoint a king to reign over them.” Samuel then said to the men of Israel: “Each of you should return to his city.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p272" data-pid="272"><a href="1001061113-split8.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 8:6</span></a> Lit., “was bad in the eyes of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p273" data-pid="273"><a href="1001061113-split8.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 8:13</span></a> Or “perfume makers.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
