<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_4.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos9188"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Then Jesus was led by the spirit up into the wilderness to be tempted by the Devil. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> After he had fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, he felt hungry. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And the Tempter approached and said to him: “If you are a son of God, tell these stones to become loaves of bread.” <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But he answered: “It is written: ‘Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every word that comes from Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> mouth.’”</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the Devil took him along into the holy city, and he stationed him on the battlement<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> of the temple <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and said to him: “If you are a son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written: ‘He will give his angels a command concerning you,’ and, ‘They will carry you on their hands, so that you may not strike your foot against a stone.’” <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Again it is written: ‘You must not put Jehovah<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> your God to the test.’”</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Again the Devil took him along to an unusually high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And he said to him: “All these things I will give you if you fall down and do an act of worship to me.” <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to him: “Go away, Satan! For it is written: ‘It is Jehovah<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> your God you must worship, and it is to him alone you must render sacred service.’” <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then the Devil left him, and look! angels came and began to minister to him.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos10529"></span><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galʹi·lee. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Further, after leaving Nazʹa·reth, he came and took up residence in Ca·perʹna·um beside the sea in the districts of Zebʹu·lun and Naphʹta·li, <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> so as to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, who said: <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “O land of Zebʹu·lun and land of Naphʹta·li, along the road of the sea, on the other side of the Jordan, Galʹi·lee of the nations! <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The people sitting in darkness saw a great light, and as for those sitting in a region of deathly shadow, light rose on them.” <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> From that time on, Jesus began preaching and saying: “Repent, for the Kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.”</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos11232"></span><span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Walking alongside the Sea of Galʹi·lee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And he said to them: “Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.” <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At once they abandoned their nets and followed him. <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Going on from there, he saw two others who were brothers, James the son of Zebʹe·dee and his brother John. They were in the boat with Zebʹe·dee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> At once they left the boat and their father and followed him.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="page1310" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1310" data-before-text="1310"></span><span id="pos11823"></span><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then he went throughout the whole of Galʹi·lee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the good news of the Kingdom and curing every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity among the people. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And the report about him spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all those who were suffering with various diseases and torments, those who were demon-possessed and epileptic and paralyzed, and he cured them. <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Consequently, large crowds followed him from Galʹi·lee and De·capʹo·lis<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> and Jerusalem and Ju·deʹa and from the other side of the Jordan.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061144-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 4:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061144-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 4:5</span></a> Or “parapet; highest point.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061144-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 4:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061144-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 4:10</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061144-split4.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 4:25</span></a> Or “the Ten City Region.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
