<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_2.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos3615"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>When Jehovah was about to take E·liʹjah up to the heavens<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> in a windstorm, E·liʹjah and E·liʹsha went out from Gilʹgal. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> E·liʹjah said to E·liʹsha: “Stay here, please, because Jehovah has sent me on to Bethʹel.” But E·liʹsha said: “As surely as Jehovah is living and as you are<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> living, I will not leave you.” So they went down to Bethʹel. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then the sons of the prophets<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> in Bethʹel came out to E·liʹsha and said to him: “Do you know that today Jehovah is taking your master away from headship over you?” At this he said: “I already know it. Be silent.”</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> E·liʹjah now said to him: “E·liʹsha, stay here, please, because Jehovah has sent me on to Jerʹi·cho.” But he said: “As surely as Jehovah is living and as you are<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> living, I will not leave you.” So they came to Jerʹi·cho. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the sons of the prophets who were in Jerʹi·cho approached E·liʹsha and said to him: “Do you know that today Jehovah is taking your master away from headship over you?” At this he said: “I already know it. Be silent.”</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> E·liʹjah now said to him: “Stay here, please, because Jehovah has sent me on to the Jordan.” But he said: “As surely as Jehovah is living and as you are<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> living, I will not leave you.” So both of them went on. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And 50 of the sons of the prophets also went and stood watching from a distance while the two of them stood by the Jordan. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then E·liʹjah took his official garment and rolled it up and struck the <span id="page526" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="526" data-before-text="526"></span>waters, and they were divided to the left and to the right, so that both of them went across on the dry ground.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As soon as they had gone across, E·liʹjah said to E·liʹsha: “Ask what you want me to do for you before I am taken from you.” So E·liʹsha said: “Please, may I receive a double portion<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> of your spirit?” <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> He replied: “You have asked a difficult thing. If you see me when I am taken from you, it will happen for you that way; but if you do not, it will not happen.”</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> As they were walking along, speaking as they walked, suddenly a fiery chariot and fiery horses made a separation between the two of them, and E·liʹjah ascended to the heavens<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> in the windstorm. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> While E·liʹsha was watching, he was crying out: “My father, my father! The chariot of Israel and his horsemen!” When he could no longer see him, he took hold of his own garments and ripped them into two pieces. <span id="pos5962"></span><span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> After that he picked up the official garment of E·liʹjah that had fallen off him and went back and stood by the bank of the Jordan. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then he took the official garment of E·liʹjah that had fallen off him and struck the waters and said: “Where is Jehovah, the God of E·liʹjah?” When he struck the waters, they were divided to the left and to the right, so that E·liʹsha went across.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When the sons of the prophets at Jerʹi·cho saw him from a distance, they said: “The spirit of E·liʹjah has settled down on E·liʹsha.” So they went to meet him and bowed down to the ground before him. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They said to him: “Here are 50 capable men with your servants. Let them go, please, to look for your master. Perhaps the spirit<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> of Jehovah has lifted him up and then thrown him on one of the mountains or in one of the valleys.” But he said: “Do not send them.” <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> However, they kept urging him until he was embarrassed, so he said: “Send them.” They sent the 50 men, who kept looking for three days but did not find him. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When they returned to him, he was staying in Jerʹi·cho. Then he said to them: “Did I not tell you not to go?”</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos7111"></span><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In time the men of the city said to E·liʹsha: “My master can see that the city is well-situated; but the water is bad, and the land is barren.”<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At that he said: “Bring me a small new bowl and put salt in it.” So they brought it to him. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then he went out to the source of the water and threw salt into it and said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘I have healed this water. No more will it cause death or barrenness.’”<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the water has been healed down to this day, according to the word spoken by E·liʹsha.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos7646"></span><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He went up from there to Bethʹel. As he was going along the way, some young boys came out from the city and began to jeer at him, and they kept saying to him: “Go up, you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!” <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Finally he turned around and looked at them and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. Then two she-bears came out of the forest and tore 42 of the children to pieces. <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He kept going from there to Mount Carʹmel, and from there he returned to Sa·marʹi·a.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p228" data-pid="228"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:1</span></a> Or “sky.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p229" data-pid="229"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:2</span></a> Or “your soul is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:3</span></a> “The sons of the prophets” seems to refer to a school of instruction for prophets or to an association of prophets.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p231" data-pid="231"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:4</span></a> Or “your soul is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p232" data-pid="232"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:6</span></a> Or “your soul is.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p233" data-pid="233"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:9</span></a> Or “two parts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:11</span></a> Or “sky.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:16</span></a> Or “wind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:19</span></a> Or possibly, “causing miscarriages.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061116-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 2:21</span></a> Or possibly, “miscarriages.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
