<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_15.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="pos59307"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>After all these things, Abʹsa·lom acquired for himself a chariot and horses and 50 men to run before him. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom would rise up early and stand at the side of the road to the city gate. Whenever any man had a legal case that was to come to the king for judgment, Abʹsa·lom would call him and say: “From what city are you?” and he would say: “Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.” <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom would say to him: “See, your claims are right and proper, but there is no one from the king to hear your case.” <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom would say: “If only I were appointed judge in the land! Then every man who has a legal case or judgment could come to me, and I would see that he receives justice.”</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And when a man came near to bow down to him, Abʹsa·lom would extend his hand and grab hold of him and kiss him. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom would do this to all the Israelites who would come in to the king for judgment; so Abʹsa·lom kept stealing the hearts of the men of Israel.</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At the end of four years,<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> Abʹsa·lom said to the king: “Let me go, please, to Hebʹron to pay my vow that I made to Jehovah. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For your servant made this solemn vow when I was dwelling in Geshʹur in Syria: ‘If Jehovah will bring me back to Jerusalem, I will make an offering to<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> Jehovah.’” <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So the king said to him: “Go in peace.” With that he rose up and went to Hebʹron.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom now sent spies through all the tribes of Israel, saying: “As soon as you hear the sound of the horn, announce, ‘Abʹsa·lom has become king in Hebʹron!’” <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now 200 men from Jerusalem had gone there with Abʹsa·lom; they were invited and went unsuspectingly, unaware of what was happening. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Further, when he offered the sacrifices, Abʹsa·lom sent for A·hithʹo·phel the Giʹlon·ite, David’s adviser,<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> from his city Giʹloh. The conspiracy kept gaining momentum, and the people who supported Abʹsa·lom were growing in number.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="pos61223"></span><span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> In time an informer came to David, saying: “The heart of the men of Israel has turned to Abʹsa·lom.” <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> At once David said to all his servants with him in Jerusalem: “Get up, and let us run away, for none of us will escape from Abʹsa·lom! Hurry, for fear he may quickly overtake us and bring disaster on us and strike the city with the sword!” <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The king’s servants replied to the king: “Whatever my lord the king decides, your servants are ready to do.” <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So the king went out with all his household following him, but the king left ten concubines to take care of the house.<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the king continued on his way out with all the people following, and they stopped at Beth-merʹhak.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> All his servants leaving with him<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> and all the Cherʹe·thites, the Pelʹe·thites, and the Gitʹtites, 600 men who had followed him from Gath, were <span id="page462" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="462" data-before-text="462"></span>passing by as the king reviewed them.<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then the king said to Itʹtai the Gitʹtite: “Why should you also go with us? Go back and dwell with the new king, for you are a foreigner and also an exile from your place. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Yesterday you came, so today should I make you wander with us, to go when I must go and where I must go? Go back and take your brothers with you, and may Jehovah show you loyal love and faithfulness!” <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But Itʹtai answered the king: “As surely as Jehovah is living and as surely as my lord the king is living, wherever my lord the king may be, whether for death or for life, there your servant will be!” <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> At that David said to Itʹtai: “Go and cross over.” So Itʹtai the Gitʹtite crossed over, together with all his men and children.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Everyone in the land was weeping loudly while all these people crossed over, and the king was standing by the Kidʹron Valley; all the people were crossing over to the road leading to the wilderness. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Zaʹdok was also there and with him were all the Levites carrying the ark of the covenant of the true God; and they set the Ark of the true God down; and A·biʹa·thar went up, while all the people completed crossing over from the city. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But the king said to Zaʹdok: “Take the Ark of the true God back to the city. If I find favor in the eyes of Jehovah, he will also bring me back and let me see it and its dwelling place. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But if he should say, ‘I have found no pleasure in you,’ then let him do to me whatever seems good in his eyes.” <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The king said to Zaʹdok the priest: “Are you not a seer? Return to the city in peace, and take the two sons of you men with you, A·himʹa·az your own son and Jonʹa·than the son of A·biʹa·thar. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> See, I will linger by the fords of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me.” <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar took the Ark of the true God back to Jerusalem, and they remained there.</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> As David was going up the Mount<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> of Olives, he was weeping as he went up; his head was covered, and he was walking barefoot. All the people with him also covered their heads and were weeping as they went up. <span id="pos64255"></span><span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> David was then told: “A·hithʹo·phel is among those conspiring with Abʹsa·lom.” At this David said: “Turn, please, the advice<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> of A·hithʹo·phel into foolishness, O Jehovah!”</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos64439"></span><span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> When David came to the summit where people used to bow down to God, Huʹshai the Arʹchite was there to meet him, with his robe ripped apart and dirt on his head. <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> However, David said to him: “If you go across with me, you will be a load on me. <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But if you return to the city and you say to Abʹsa·lom, ‘I am your servant, O King. I was the servant of your father in the past, but now I am your servant,’ you can then frustrate the advice of A·hithʹo·phel for me. <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Are not Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar the priests there with you? You must tell Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar the priests everything that you hear from the house of the king. <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Look! There with them are their two sons, A·himʹa·az the son of Zaʹdok and Jonʹa·than the son of A·biʹa·thar, and through them send to me everything that you hear.” <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> So Huʹshai, David’s friend,<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> went into the city as Abʹsa·lom was entering into Jerusalem.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p350" data-pid="350"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:7</span></a> Or possibly, “40 years.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p351" data-pid="351"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:8</span></a> Or “worship.” Lit., “render service to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:12</span></a> Or “counselor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p353" data-pid="353"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:16</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p354" data-pid="354"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:18</span></a> Or “crossing at his side.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p355" data-pid="355"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:18</span></a> Or “crossing before the king’s face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p356" data-pid="356"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:30</span></a> Or “ascent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p357" data-pid="357"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:31</span></a> Or “counsel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p358" data-pid="358"><a href="1001061114-split15.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 15:37</span></a> Or “confidant.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
