<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_8.xhtml">1 - 66</a></p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="pos41318"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>At that time Solʹo·mon congregated the elders of Israel, all the heads of the tribes, the chieftains of the paternal houses of Israel. They came to King Solʹo·mon at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from the City of David, that is, Zion. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> All the men of Israel assembled before King Solʹo·mon at the festival<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> in the month of Ethʹa·nim,<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> that is, the seventh month. <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So all the elders of Israel came, and the priests lifted up the Ark. <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They brought up the Ark of Jehovah, the tent of meeting, and all the holy utensils that were in the tent. The priests and the Levites brought them up. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon and the entire assembly of Israel, who had been summoned to meet with him, were before the Ark. So many sheep and cattle were being sacrificed that they could not be counted or numbered.</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah to its place, into the innermost room of the house, the Most Holy, underneath the wings of the cherubs.</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Thus the wings of the cherubs were spread out over the place of the Ark, so that the cherubs overshadowed the Ark and its poles. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The poles were so long that the tips of the poles were visible from the Holy in front of the innermost room, but they were not visible from outside. And they are there to this day. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> There was nothing in the Ark but the two stone tablets that Moses placed there at Horʹeb, when Jehovah made a covenant with the people of Israel while they were coming out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When the priests came out from the holy place, the cloud filled the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The priests were not able to stand to minister because of <span id="page494" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="494" data-before-text="494"></span>the cloud, for the glory of Jehovah filled the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At that time Solʹo·mon said: “Jehovah said he would reside in the thick gloom. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> I have successfully built a lofty house for you, an established place for you to dwell in forever.”</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="pos43270"></span><span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then the king turned around and began to bless all the congregation of Israel while all the congregation of Israel stood. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He said: “May Jehovah the God of Israel be praised, the one who by his own mouth promised my father David, and by his own hand has given fulfillment, saying, <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> ‘From the day I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house for my name to remain there, but I have chosen David to be over my people Israel.’ <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And it was the heart’s desire of my father David to build a house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But Jehovah said to my father David, ‘It was your heart’s desire to build a house for my name, and you did well to desire this in your heart. <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, you will not build the house, but your own son who is to be born to you<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> is the one who will build the house for my name.’ <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Jehovah has carried out the promise that he made, for I have succeeded my father David and I sit on the throne of Israel, just as Jehovah promised. I have also built the house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and have set up a place there for the Ark containing the covenant that Jehovah made with our forefathers when he was bringing them out of the land of Egypt.”</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos44591"></span><span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then Solʹo·mon stood before the altar of Jehovah in front of all the congregation of Israel, and he spread his hands out to the heavens, <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and he said: “O Jehovah the God of Israel, there is no God like you in the heavens above or on the earth beneath, keeping the covenant and showing loyal love to your servants who are walking before you with all their heart. <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You have kept the promise that you made to your servant David my father. You made the promise with your own mouth, and this day you have fulfilled it with your own hand. <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And now, O Jehovah the God of Israel, keep the promise you made to your servant David my father when you said: ‘There will never fail to be a man of your line before me to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons will pay attention to their way by walking before me, just as you have walked before me.’ <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And now, O God of Israel, let the promise that you made to your servant David my father prove trustworthy, please.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “But will God really dwell on the earth? Look! The heavens, yes, the heaven of the heavens, cannot contain you; how much less, then, this house that I have built! <span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Now pay attention to the prayer of your servant and to his request for favor, O Jehovah my God, and listen to the cry for help and to the prayer that your servant is praying before you today. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> May your eyes be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which you said, ‘My name will be there,’ to listen to the prayer that your servant prays toward this place. <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And listen to your servant’s request for favor and to the request by your people Israel that they pray toward this place, and <span id="page495" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="495" data-before-text="495"></span>may you hear from your dwelling place in the heavens; yes, may you hear and forgive.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “When a man sins against his fellow man and is made to take an oath<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> and is brought under liability to the oath,<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> and while under the oath<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> he comes before your altar in this house, <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> may you then hear from the heavens and act and judge your servants by pronouncing the wicked one guilty<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> and bringing what he did on his own head, and by pronouncing the righteous one innocent<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> and rewarding him according to his own righteousness.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “When your people Israel are defeated by an enemy because they kept sinning against you, and they return to you and glorify your name and pray and beg you for favor in this house, <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> may you then hear from the heavens and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them back to the land that you gave to their forefathers.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they kept sinning against you, and they pray toward this place and glorify your name and turn back from their sin because you humbled<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> them, <span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> may you then hear from the heavens and forgive the sin of your servants, of your people Israel, for you will instruct them about the good way in which they should walk; and bring rain on your land that you gave to your people as an inheritance.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “If a famine occurs in the land, or a pestilence, a scorching blight, mildew, swarming locusts, or voracious locusts;<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> or if their enemy besieges them in any of the cities of the land<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> or if any other sort of plague or disease occurs, <span id="chapter8_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> whatever prayer, whatever request for favor may be made by any man or by all your people Israel (for each one knows the plague of his own heart) when they spread out their hands toward this house, <span id="chapter8_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> then may you hear from the heavens, your dwelling place, and may you forgive and take action; and reward each one according to all his ways, for you know his heart (you alone truly know every human heart), <span id="chapter8_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> so that they may fear you all the days they live on the land that you gave to our forefathers.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> “Also concerning the foreigner who is not part of your people Israel and who comes from a distant land because of your name<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> (for they will hear about your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm), and he comes and prays toward this house, <span id="chapter8_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> may you then listen from the heavens, your dwelling place, and do all that the foreigner asks of you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as your people Israel do, and may know that your name has been called on this house that I have built.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> “If your people go to war against their enemy in the way that you send them, and they pray to Jehovah in the direction of the city that you have chosen and toward the house that I have built for your name, <span id="chapter8_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> then hear from the heavens their prayer and their request for favor and execute judgment for them.</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="page496" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="496" data-before-text="496"></span><span id="chapter8_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> “If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin), and you are furious with them and you abandon them to an enemy, and their captors carry them off captive to the land of the enemy, far or near; <span id="chapter8_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> and they come to their senses in the land where they were carried off captive, and they return to you and beg you for favor in the land of their captors, saying, ‘We have sinned and done wrong; we have acted wickedly,’ <span id="chapter8_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> and they return to you with all their heart and all their soul<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> in the land of their enemies who carried them off captive, and they pray to you in the direction of their land that you gave to their forefathers and of the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name, <span id="chapter8_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> then hear from the heavens, your dwelling place, their prayer and their request for favor, and execute judgment for them <span id="chapter8_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> and forgive your people who have sinned against you, forgiving all their transgressions they committed against you. You will make them objects of pity before their captors, and they will pity them <span id="chapter8_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> (for they are your people and your inheritance, whom you brought out of Egypt, from inside the iron-smelting furnace). <span id="chapter8_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> May your eyes be opened to your servant’s request for favor and to the request for favor by your people Israel by listening whenever they call to you.<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> <span id="chapter8_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> For you set them apart as your inheritance out of all the peoples of the earth, just as you declared through Moses your servant when you were bringing our forefathers out of Egypt, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos50870"></span><span id="chapter8_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> And as soon as Solʹo·mon finished offering to Jehovah this entire prayer and request for favor, he rose up from before the altar of Jehovah, where he had been kneeling with his hands spread out to the heavens. <span id="chapter8_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> He then stood and blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying: <span id="chapter8_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> “Praised be Jehovah, who has given a resting-place to his people Israel, just as he promised. Not one word of all his good promise that he made through Moses his servant has failed. <span id="chapter8_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> May Jehovah our God be with us just as he was with our forefathers. May he not abandon us nor forsake us. <span id="chapter8_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> May he draw our heart toward himself, to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments, his regulations, and his judgments, which he commanded our forefathers to observe. <span id="chapter8_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> And may these words of mine with which I have begged Jehovah for favor be near to Jehovah our God by day and night, that he may execute judgment for his servant and for his people Israel as each day requires, <span id="chapter8_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> so that all the peoples of the earth may know that Jehovah is the true God. There is no other! <span id="chapter8_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> So let your heart be complete with<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> Jehovah our God by walking in his regulations and by keeping his commandments as on this day.”</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="pos52125"></span><span id="chapter8_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> Now the king and all Israel with him offered a grand sacrifice before Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon offered the communion sacrifices to Jehovah: He offered 22,000 cattle and 120,000 sheep. Thus the king and all the Israelites inaugurated the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter8_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> On that day the king <span id="page497" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="497" data-before-text="497"></span>had to sanctify the middle of the courtyard that is before the house of Jehovah, for there he had to offer up the burnt sacrifices, the grain offerings, and the fat pieces of the communion sacrifices, because the copper altar that is before Jehovah was too small to contain the burnt sacrifices, the grain offerings, and the fat pieces of the communion sacrifices. <span id="chapter8_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> At that time Solʹo·mon held the festival together with all Israel, a great congregation from Leʹbo-haʹmath<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> down to the Wadi<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> of Egypt, before Jehovah our God for 7 days and then another 7 days, 14 days in all. <span id="chapter8_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> On the following<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> day, he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their homes rejoicing and feeling glad of heart over all the goodness that Jehovah had shown to David his servant and Israel his people.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:2</span></a> That is, the Festival of Booths.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:2</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:19</span></a> Lit., “your son, the one coming out of your loins.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:31</span></a> Or “and the latter lays a cursing on him.” That is, an oath that carried with it a curse as its penalty if sworn falsely or violated.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:31</span></a> Lit., “curse.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:31</span></a> Lit., “curse.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:32</span></a> Lit., “wicked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:32</span></a> Lit., “righteous.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:35</span></a> Or “afflicted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:37</span></a> Or “grasshoppers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:37</span></a> Lit., “in the land of his gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:41</span></a> Or “reputation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:48</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:52</span></a> Or “listening to them whatever they ask of you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:61</span></a> Or “completely devoted to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p329" data-pid="329"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:65</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p330" data-pid="330"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:65</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p331" data-pid="331"><a href="1001061115-split8.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 8:66</span></a> Lit., “eighth,” that is, the day after the second seven-day period.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
