<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_5.xhtml">1 - 48</a></p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos12409"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>When he saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain; and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he opened his mouth and began teaching them, saying:</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos12576"></span><span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need,<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> since the Kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Happy are those who mourn, since they will be comforted.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Happy are the mild-tempered,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> since they will inherit the earth.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Happy are those hungering and thirsting for righteousness, since they will be filled.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a></p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Happy are the merciful, since they will be shown mercy.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Happy are the pure in heart, since they will see God.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Happy are the peacemakers,<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> since they will be called sons of God.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Happy are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, since the Kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Happy are you when people reproach you and persecute you and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing against you for my sake. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Rejoice and be overjoyed, since your reward is great in the heavens, for in that way they persecuted the prophets prior to you.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos13506"></span><span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its strength, how will its saltiness be restored? It is no longer usable for anything except to be thrown outside to be trampled on by men.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “You are the light of the world. A city cannot be hid when located on a mountain. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> People light a lamp and set it, not under a basket,<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> but on the lampstand, and it shines on all those in the house. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Likewise, let your light shine before men, so that they may see your fine works and give glory to your Father who is in the heavens.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos14065"></span><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “Do not think I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I came, not to destroy, but to fulfill. <span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Truly I say to you that sooner would heaven and earth pass away than for one smallest letter or one stroke of a letter to pass away from the Law until all things take place. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Whoever, therefore, breaks one of these least commandments and teaches others to do so will be called least in relation to the Kingdom of the heavens. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in relation to the Kingdom of the heavens. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For I say to you that if your righteousness does not surpass that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter into the Kingdom of the heavens.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos14781"></span><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “You heard that it was said to those of ancient times: ‘You <span id="page1311" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1311" data-before-text="1311"></span>must not murder, but whoever commits a murder will be accountable to the court of justice.’ <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, I say to you that everyone who continues wrathful with his brother will be accountable to the court of justice; and whoever addresses his brother with an unspeakable word of contempt will be accountable to the Supreme Court; whereas whoever says, ‘You despicable fool!’ will be liable to the fiery Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a></p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you, <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away. First make your peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “Be quick to settle matters with your legal opponent, while you are with him on the way there, so that somehow the opponent may not turn you over to the judge, and the judge to the court attendant, and you get thrown into prison. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I say to you for a fact, you will certainly not come out of there until you have paid over your last small coin.<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a></p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos15906"></span><span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “You heard that it was said: ‘You must not commit adultery.’ <span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But I say to you that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> If, now, your right eye is making you stumble, tear it out and throw it away from you. For it is better for you to lose one of your members than for your whole body to be pitched into Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Also, if your right hand is making you stumble, cut it off and throw it away from you. For it is better for you to lose one of your members than for your whole body to land in Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a></p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos16534"></span><span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Moreover, it was said: ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’ <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> However, I say to you that everyone divorcing his wife, except on account of sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> makes her a subject for adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos16831"></span><span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Again you heard that it was said to those of ancient times: ‘You must not swear without performing, but you must pay your vows to Jehovah.’<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> However, I say to you: Do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God’s throne; <span id="chapter5_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> nor by earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. <span id="chapter5_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Do not swear by your head, since you cannot turn one hair white or black. <span id="chapter5_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Just let your word ‘Yes’ mean yes, your ‘No,’ no, for what goes beyond these is from the wicked one.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="pos17384"></span><span id="chapter5_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> “You heard that it was said: ‘Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.’ <span id="chapter5_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> However, I say to you: Do not resist the one who is wicked, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other also to him. <span id="chapter5_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And if a person wants to take you to court and get possession of your inner garment, let him also have your outer garment; <span id="chapter5_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> and if someone in authority compels you into service for a mile,<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> go with him two miles. <span id="chapter5_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Give to the one asking you, and do not turn away from one who wants to borrow<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> from you.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="page1312" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1312" data-before-text="1312"></span><span id="pos17919"></span><span id="chapter5_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> “You heard that it was said: ‘You must love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ <span id="chapter5_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> However, I say to you: Continue to love your enemies and to pray for those who persecute you, <span id="chapter5_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> so that you may prove yourselves sons of your Father who is in the heavens, since he makes his sun rise on both the wicked and the good and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous. <span id="chapter5_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> For if you love those loving you, what reward do you have? Are not also the tax collectors doing the same thing? <span id="chapter5_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> And if you greet your brothers only, what extraordinary thing are you doing? Are not also the people of the nations doing the same thing? <span id="chapter5_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> You must accordingly be perfect,<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> as your heavenly Father is perfect.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p269" data-pid="269"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:3</span></a> Or “those who are beggars for the spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p270" data-pid="270"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:5</span></a> Or “meek.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p271" data-pid="271"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:6</span></a> Or “satisfied.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p272" data-pid="272"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:9</span></a> Or “peaceable.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p273" data-pid="273"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:15</span></a> Or “measuring basket.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p274" data-pid="274"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:22</span></a> The place for burning refuse outside of Jerusalem. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p275" data-pid="275"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:26</span></a> Lit., “the last quadrans.” See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p276" data-pid="276"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:29</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:30</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:32</span></a> Greek, <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:33</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:41</span></a> See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:42</span></a> That is, borrow without interest.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061144-split5.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 5:48</span></a> Or “complete.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
