<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ephesians 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061153"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ephesians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav49.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav49_2.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos3225"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Furthermore, God made you alive, though you were dead in your trespasses and sins, <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> in which you at one time walked according to the system of things<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> of this world, according to the ruler of the authority <span id="page1565" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1565" data-before-text="1565"></span>of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Yes, among them we all at one time conducted ourselves in harmony with the desires of our flesh, carrying out the will of the flesh and of our thoughts, and we were naturally children of wrath just as the rest. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> made us alive together with the Christ, even when we were dead in trespasses—by undeserved kindness you have been saved. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Moreover, he raised us up together and seated us together in the heavenly places in union with Christ Jesus, <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> so that in the coming systems of things<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> he might demonstrate the surpassing riches of his undeserved kindness in his graciousness<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> toward us in union with Christ Jesus.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> By this undeserved kindness you have been saved through faith, and this is not of your own doing; rather, it is God’s gift. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> No, it is not a result of works, so that no one should have grounds for boasting. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> We are God’s handiwork<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> and were created in union with Christ Jesus for good works, which God determined in advance for us to walk in them.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos4599"></span><span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Therefore, remember that at one time you, people of the nations by fleshly descent, were the ones called “uncircumcision” by those called “circumcision,” which is made in the flesh by human hands. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At that time you were without Christ, alienated from the state of Israel, strangers to the covenants of the promise; you had no hope and were without God in the world. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But now in union with Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have come to be near by the blood of the Christ. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For he is our peace, the one who made the two groups one and destroyed the wall in between that fenced them off. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> By means of his flesh he abolished the enmity, the Law of commandments consisting in decrees, in order to make the two groups in union with himself into one new man and to make peace, <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and to reconcile fully both peoples in one body to God through the torture stake,<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> because he had killed off the enmity by means of himself. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And he came and declared the good news of peace to you who were far off, and peace to those near, <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> because through him we, both peoples, have free access to the Father by one spirit.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but you are fellow citizens of the holy ones and are members of the household of God, <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and you have been built up on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, while Christ Jesus himself is the foundation cornerstone. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In union with him the whole building, being harmoniously joined together, is growing into a holy temple for Jehovah.<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> In union with him you too are being built up together into a place for God to inhabit by spirit.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p40" data-pid="40"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:2</span></a> Or “the course.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:7</span></a> Or “the coming ages.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:7</span></a> Or “favor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p43" data-pid="43"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:10</span></a> Or “are a product of His work.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p44" data-pid="44"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p45" data-pid="45"><a href="1001061153-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 2:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
