<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_3.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos9238"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>These are the nations that Jehovah allowed to remain so that they could test all those of Israel who had not <span id="page362" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="362" data-before-text="362"></span>experienced any of the wars of Caʹnaan <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> (this was so that succeeding generations of Israelites would experience war, those who had not experienced such things before): <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> the five lords of the Phi·lisʹtines, and all the Caʹnaan·ites, the Si·doʹni·ans, and the Hiʹvites inhabiting Mount Lebʹa·non from Mount Baʹal-herʹmon as far as Leʹbo-haʹmath.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They served as a means of testing Israel to determine whether Israel would obey Jehovah’s commandments that he had given their fathers through Moses. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So the Israelites lived among the Caʹnaan·ites, the Hitʹtites, the Amʹor·ites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They would take their daughters as wives, and their own daughters they gave to their sons, and they began serving their gods.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos10133"></span><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So the Israelites did what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, and they forgot Jehovah their God and were serving the Baʹals and the sacred poles.<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At this Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cuʹshan-rish·a·thaʹim the king of Mes·o·po·taʹmi·a.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> The Israelites served Cuʹshan-rish·a·thaʹim for eight years. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When the Israelites called to Jehovah for help, Jehovah raised up a savior to rescue the Israelites, Othʹni·el the son of Keʹnaz, the younger brother of Caʹleb. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he became the judge of Israel. When he went out to battle, Jehovah gave Cuʹshan-rish·a·thaʹim the king of Mes·o·po·taʹmi·a<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> into his hand so that he prevailed over Cuʹshan-rish·a·thaʹim. <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> After that the land had rest<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> for 40 years. Then Othʹni·el the son of Keʹnaz died.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos10971"></span><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And once again the Israelites began doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. So Jehovah let Egʹlon the king of Moʹab prevail over Israel, because they did what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Furthermore, he brought against them the Amʹmon·ites and the A·malʹek·ites. They attacked Israel and captured the city of palm trees. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The Israelites served Egʹlon the king of Moʹab for 18 years. <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then the Israelites called to Jehovah for help, so Jehovah raised up for them a savior, Eʹhud the son of Geʹra, a Benʹja·min·ite who was left-handed. In time the Israelites sent tribute through him to Egʹlon the king of Moʹab. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Meanwhile, Eʹhud made for himself a two-edged sword, a cubit<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> long, and he strapped it underneath his garment on his right thigh. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He then presented the tribute to Egʹlon the king of Moʹab. Now Egʹlon was a very fat man.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When Eʹhud finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who had carried the tribute. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But after reaching the carved images<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> at Gilʹgal, he himself went back and said: “I have a secret message for you, O king.” So the king said: “Silence!” With that all his attendants left him. <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Eʹhud came to him as he was sitting alone in his cool roof chamber. Then Eʹhud said: “I have a message from God for you.” So he rose up from his throne.<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Eʹhud drew the sword from his right thigh with his left hand and plunged it into his belly. <span id="page363" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="363" data-before-text="363"></span><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The handle went in after the blade, and the fat closed in over the blade, for he did not draw the sword out of his belly, and the fecal matter came out. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Eʹhud went out through the porch,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> closing the doors of the roof chamber behind him and locking them. <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After he left, the servants returned and saw that the doors of the roof chamber were locked. So they said: “He must be relieving himself<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> in the cool interior room.” <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> They kept waiting until they were embarrassed, but when they saw that he was still not opening the doors of the roof chamber, they took the key and opened them and saw their lord fallen to the floor<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> dead!</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Eʹhud escaped while they were lingering, and he passed by the carved images<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> and made it safely to Se·iʹrah. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When he arrived, he sounded the horn in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im; and the Israelites went down out of the mountainous region, with him at their head. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Follow me, because Jehovah has given your enemies, the Moʹab·ites, into your hand.” So they followed him and captured the fords of the Jordan against the Moʹab·ites, and they did not allow anyone to cross. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> At that time they struck down about 10,000 Moʹab·ites, all strong and valiant men; not a single one escaped. <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So Moʹab was subdued on that day under Israel’s hand; and the land had rest<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> for 80 years.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos13819"></span><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> After him was Shamʹgar the son of Aʹnath, who struck down 600 Phi·lisʹtine men with a cattle goad; he too saved Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:3</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:8</span></a> Lit., “Aram-naharaim.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:10</span></a> Lit., “Aram.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:11</span></a> Or “peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:16</span></a> Perhaps a short cubit of about 38 cm (15 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:19</span></a> Or possibly, “the quarries.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:20</span></a> Or “seat.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:23</span></a> Or possibly, “air vent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:24</span></a> Lit., “covering his feet.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p269" data-pid="269"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:25</span></a> Lit., “earth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p270" data-pid="270"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:26</span></a> Or possibly, “the quarries.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p271" data-pid="271"><a href="1001061111-split3.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 3:30</span></a> Or “peace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
