<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_8.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos26633"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>After he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And look! a leper came up and did obeisance<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> to him, saying: “Lord, if you just want to, you can make me clean.” <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So stretching out his hand, he touched him, saying: “I want to! Be made clean.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed away. <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to him: “See that you tell no one, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses appointed, for a witness to them.”</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos27107"></span><span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When he entered Ca·perʹna·um, an army officer came to him, pleading with him <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and saying: “Sir, my servant is laid up in the house with paralysis, and he is suffering terribly.” <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He said to him: “When I get there, I will cure him.” <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The army officer replied: “Sir, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but just say the word and my servant will be healed. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For I too am a man under authority, having <span id="page1315" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1315" data-before-text="1315"></span>soldiers under me, and I say to this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come!’ and he comes, and to my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.” <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When Jesus heard that, he was amazed and said to those following him: “I tell you the truth, with no one in Israel have I found so great a faith. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But I tell you that many from east and west will come and recline at the table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom of the heavens; <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> whereas the sons of the Kingdom will be thrown into the darkness outside. There is where their weeping and the gnashing of their teeth will be.” <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to the army officer: “Go. Just as you have shown faith, so let it come to pass for you.” And the servant was healed in that hour.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos28289"></span><span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And Jesus, on coming into Peter’s house, saw his mother-in-law lying down and sick with fever. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and began ministering to him. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But after it became evening, people brought him many demon-possessed ones; and he expelled the spirits with a word, and he cured all who were suffering, <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet: “He himself took our sicknesses and carried our diseases.”</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos28783"></span><span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave the command to depart for the other side. <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And a scribe came up and said to him: “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Jesus said to him: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.” <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then another of the disciples said to him: “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Keep following me, and let the dead bury their dead.”</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos29284"></span><span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And when he went aboard a boat, his disciples followed him. <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Now look! a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was being covered by the waves; but he was sleeping. <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And they came and woke him up, saying: “Lord, save us, we are about to perish!” <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But he said to them: “Why are you so afraid,<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> you with little faith?” Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and a great calm set in. <span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So the men were amazed and said: “What sort of person is this? Even the winds and the sea obey him.”</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="pos29821"></span><span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When he came to the other side into the region of the Gad·a·renesʹ, two demon-possessed men coming out from among the tombs<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> met him. They were unusually fierce, so nobody had the courage to pass by on that road. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And look! they screamed, saying: “What have we to do with you, Son of God? Did you come here to torment us before the appointed time?” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> A long way off from them, a herd of many swine was feeding. <span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So the demons began to plead with him, saying: “If you expel us, send us into the herd of swine.” <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And he said to them: “Go!” With that they came out and went off into the swine, and look! the entire herd rushed over the precipice<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> into the sea and died in the waters. <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But the herders fled, and going into the city, they reported everything, including the account of the demon-possessed men. <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And look! all the city turned out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they urged him to depart from their region.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061144-split8.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 8:2</span></a> Or “bowed down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061144-split8.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 8:26</span></a> Or “fainthearted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061144-split8.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 8:28</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061144-split8.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 8:32</span></a> Or “steep bank.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
