<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Galatians 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061152"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Galatians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav48.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav48_1.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1557" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1557" data-before-text="1557"></span><strong>TO THE GALATIANS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos67"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Paul, an apostle, neither from men nor through a man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him up from the dead, <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and all the brothers with me, to the congregations of Ga·laʹti·a:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He gave himself for our sins so that he might rescue us from the present wicked system of things<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> according to the will of our God and Father, <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos568"></span><span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> I am amazed that you are so quickly turning away<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> from the One who called you with Christ’s undeserved kindness to another sort of good news. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Not that there is another good news; but there are certain ones who are causing you trouble and wanting to distort the good news about the Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> However, even if we or an angel out of heaven were to declare to you as good news something beyond the good news we declared to you, let him be accursed. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As we have said before, I now say again, Whoever is declaring to you as good news something beyond what you accepted, let him be accursed.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1168"></span><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Is it, in fact, men I am now trying to persuade or God? Or am I trying to please men? If I were still pleasing men, I would not be Christ’s slave. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For I want you to know, brothers, that the good news I declared to you is not of human origin; <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> for neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it was through a revelation by Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos1541"></span><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Of course, you heard about my conduct formerly in Juʹda·ism, that I kept intensely<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> persecuting the congregation of God and devastating it; <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and I was making greater progress in Juʹda·ism than many of my own age in my nation, as I was far more zealous for the traditions of my fathers. <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But when God, who separated me from my mother’s womb and called me through his undeserved kindness, thought good <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> to reveal his Son through me so that I might declare the good news about him to the nations, I did not immediately consult with any human;<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before I was, but I went to Arabia, and then I returned to Damascus.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to visit Ceʹphas,<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and I stayed with him for 15 days. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But I did not see any of the other apostles, only James the brother of the Lord. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now regarding the things I am writing you, I assure you before God that I am not lying.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After that I went into the regions of Syria and Ci·liʹcia. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But I was personally unknown to the congregations of Ju·deʹa that were in union with Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They only used to hear: “The man who formerly persecuted us is now declaring the good news about the faith that he formerly devastated.” <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So they began glorifying God because of me.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061152.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 1:4</span></a> Or “wicked age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p43" data-pid="43"><a href="1001061152.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 1:6</span></a> Or “are being so quickly removed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p44" data-pid="44"><a href="1001061152.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 1:13</span></a> Lit., “that to the point of excess I kept.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p45" data-pid="45"><a href="1001061152.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 1:16</span></a> Lit., “with flesh and blood.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p46" data-pid="46"><a href="1001061152.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 1:18</span></a> Also called Peter.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
