<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_10.xhtml">1 - 42</a></p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos60626"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>After these things the Lord designated 70 others and sent them out by twos ahead of him into every city and place where he himself was to go. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few. Therefore, beg the Master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Go! Look! I am sending you out as lambs in among wolves. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Do not carry a money bag or a food pouch or sandals, and do not greet anyone<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> along the road. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Wherever you enter into a house, say first: ‘May this house have peace.’ <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And if a friend of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if there is not, it will return to you. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So stay in that house, eating and drinking the things they provide, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not keep transferring from house to house.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Also, wherever you enter into a city and they receive you, eat what is set before you <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and cure the sick ones in it and tell them: ‘The Kingdom of God has come near to you.’ <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But wherever you enter into a city and they do not receive you, go out into its main streets and say: <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> ‘We wipe off against you even the dust that sticks to our feet from your city. Nevertheless, know this, that the Kingdom of God has come near.’ <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> I tell you that it will be more endurable for Sodʹom in that day than for that city.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos61981"></span><span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Woe to you, Cho·raʹzin! Woe to you, Beth·saʹi·da! because if the powerful works that have taken place in you had taken place in Tyre and Siʹdon, they would long ago have repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Consequently, it will be more endurable for Tyre and Siʹdon in the judgment than for you. <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And you, Ca·perʹna·um, will you perhaps be exalted to heaven? Down to the Grave<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> you will come!</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="page1398" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1398" data-before-text="1398"></span><span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Whoever listens to you listens to me. And whoever disregards you disregards me also. Moreover, whoever disregards me disregards also Him who sent me.”</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos62568"></span><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then the 70 returned with joy, saying: “Lord, even the demons are made subject to us by the use of your name.” <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that he said to them: “I see Satan already fallen like lightning from heaven. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Look! I have given you the authority to trample underfoot serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing at all will harm you. <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Nevertheless, do not rejoice because the spirits are made subject to you, but rejoice because your names have been written in the heavens.” <span id="pos63085"></span><span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In that very hour he became overjoyed in the holy spirit and said: “I publicly praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have carefully hidden these things from wise and intellectual ones and have revealed them to young children. Yes, O Father, because this is the way you approved. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the Father is except the Son and anyone to whom the Son is willing to reveal him.”</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> With that he turned to the disciples and told them privately: “Happy are the eyes that see the things you are seeing. <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For I say to you, many prophets and kings desired to see the things you are observing but did not see them, and to hear the things you are hearing but did not hear them.”</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos63915"></span><span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now look! a man versed in the Law stood up to test him and said: “Teacher, what do I need to do to inherit everlasting life?” <span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He said to him: “What is written in the Law? How do you read?” <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> In answer he said: “‘You must love Jehovah<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> and with your whole strength and with your whole mind’ and ‘your neighbor as yourself.’” <span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He said to him: “You answered correctly; keep doing this and you will get life.”</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But wanting to prove himself righteous, the man said to Jesus: “Who really is my neighbor?” <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said: “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jerʹi·cho and fell victim to robbers, who stripped him, beat him, and went off, leaving him half-dead. <span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Now by coincidence a priest was going down on that road, but when he saw him, he passed by on the opposite side. <span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Likewise, a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the opposite side. <span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But a certain Sa·marʹi·tan traveling the road came upon him, and at seeing him, he was moved with pity. <span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> So he approached him and bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them. Then he mounted him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. <span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The next day he took out two de·narʹi·i,<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> gave them to the innkeeper, and said: ‘Take care of him, and whatever you spend besides this, I will repay you when I return.’ <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Who of these three seems to you to have made himself neighbor to the man who fell victim to the robbers?” <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> He said: “The one who acted mercifully toward him.” Jesus then said to him: “Go and do the same yourself.”</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos65582"></span><span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Now as they went on their way, he entered into a certain <span id="page1399" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1399" data-before-text="1399"></span>village. Here a woman named Martha received him as a guest in her house. <span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> She also had a sister called Mary, who sat down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what he was saying.<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Martha, on the other hand, was distracted with attending to many duties. So she came to him and said: “Lord, does it not matter to you that my sister has left me alone to attend to things? Tell her to come and help me.” <span id="chapter10_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> In answer the Lord said to her: “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and disturbed about many things. <span id="chapter10_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> A few things, though, are needed, or just one. For her part, Mary chose the good portion,<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> and it will not be taken away from her.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:4</span></a> Or “embrace anyone in greeting.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:15</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:27</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p325" data-pid="325"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:27</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:35</span></a> See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p327" data-pid="327"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:39</span></a> Lit., “his word.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p328" data-pid="328"><a href="1001061146-split10.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 10:42</span></a> Or “best portion.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
