<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_23.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="pos98238"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the seat of Moses. <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Therefore, all the things they tell you, do and observe, but do not do according to their deeds, for they say but they do not practice what they say. <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They bind up heavy loads and put them on the shoulders of men, but they themselves are not willing to budge them with their finger. <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> All the works they do, they do to be seen by men, for they broaden the scripture-containing cases that they wear as safeguards<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> and lengthen the fringes of their garments. <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> They like the most prominent place at evening meals and the front<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a> seats in the synagogues <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and the greetings in the marketplaces and to be called Rabbi<span id="footnotesource149"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote149">*</a> by men. <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But you, do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your Teacher, and all of you are brothers. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Moreover, do not call anyone your father on earth, for one is your Father, the heavenly One. <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Neither be called leaders, for your Leader is one, the Christ. <span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But the greatest one among you must be your minister. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="pos99445"></span><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you shut up the Kingdom of the heavens before men; for you yourselves do not go in, neither do you permit those on their way in to go in. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> ——</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you travel over sea and dry land to make one proselyte,<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> and when he becomes one, you make him a subject for Ge·henʹna<span id="footnotesource152"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote152">*</a> twice as much so as yourselves.</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Woe to you, blind guides, who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is under obligation.’ <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Fools and blind ones! Which, in fact, is greater, the gold or the temple that has sanctified the gold? <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Moreover, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift on it, he is under obligation.’ <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Blind ones! Which, in fact, is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift? <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Therefore, whoever swears by the altar is swearing by it and by all the things on it; <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and whoever swears by the temple is swearing by it and by the One inhabiting it; <span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> and whoever swears by heaven is swearing by the throne of God and by the One sitting on it.</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you give the tenth of the mint and the dill and the cumin, but you have disregarded the weightier matters of the Law, namely, justice and mercy and faithfulness. These things it was necessary to do, yet not to disregard the other things. <span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Blind guides, who strain out the gnat but gulp down the camel!</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside <span id="page1338" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1338" data-before-text="1338"></span>they are full of greediness<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> and self-indulgence. <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and of the dish, so that the outside of it may also become clean.</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly indeed appear beautiful but inside are full of dead men’s bones and of every sort of uncleanness. <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> In the same way, on the outside you appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you build the graves of the prophets and decorate the tombs<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> of the righteous ones, <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and you say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our forefathers, we would not have shared with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’ <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Therefore, you are testifying against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. <span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Well, then, fill up the measure of your forefathers.</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Serpents, offspring of vipers, how will you flee from the judgment of Ge·henʹna?<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> For this reason, I am sending to you prophets and wise men and public instructors. Some of them you will kill and execute on stakes, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city, <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> so that there may come upon you all the righteous blood spilled on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zech·a·riʹah son of Bar·a·chiʹah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="pos102755"></span><span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the killer of the prophets and stoner of those sent to her—how often I wanted to gather your children together the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings! But you did not want it. <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Look! Your house is abandoned to you.<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> For I say to you, you will by no means see me from now until you say, ‘Blessed is the one who comes in Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> name!’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:5</span></a> Or “broaden their phylacteries.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:6</span></a> Or “best.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote149"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource149">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:7</span></a> Or “Teacher.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:14</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:15</span></a> Or “convert.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote152"><p id="p395" data-pid="395"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource152">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:15</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p id="p396" data-pid="396"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:25</span></a> Or “plunder.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p id="p397" data-pid="397"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:29</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p id="p398" data-pid="398"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:33</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p id="p399" data-pid="399"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:38</span></a> Or possibly, “is left to you desolate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061144-split23.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 23:39</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
