<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_18.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos74369"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>Then David numbered the men who were with him and placed over them chiefs of thousands and chiefs of hundreds. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And David sent one third of the men under the command<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> of Joʹab, one third under the command of Joʹab’s brother A·bishʹai the son of Ze·ruʹiah, and one third under the command of Itʹtai the Gitʹtite. The king then said to the men: “I will <span id="page466" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="466" data-before-text="466"></span>also go out with you.” <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But they said: “You must not go out, for if we flee, they would not care about<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> us; and if half of us would die, they would not care about us, because you are worth 10,000 of us. Therefore, it would be better if you would send us help from the city.” <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The king said to them: “Whatever seems best to you, I will do.” So the king stood next to the city gate, and all the men went out by hundreds and by thousands. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the king gave Joʹab and A·bishʹai and Itʹtai this order: “Deal gently with the young man Abʹsa·lom for my sake.” All the men heard it when the king gave all the chiefs the order about Abʹsa·lom.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The men went out to the field to meet Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Eʹphra·im. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> There the people of Israel were defeated by the servants of David, and a great slaughter took place on that day—20,000 men. <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The battle spread through the whole region. Furthermore, the forest devoured more of the people than the sword did on that day.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom eventually found himself facing the servants of David. Abʹsa·lom was riding on a mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a large tree, and his head got entangled in the big tree, so that he was suspended in midair<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> while the mule he had been riding kept going. <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then someone saw it and told Joʹab: “Look! I have seen Abʹsa·lom hanging in a big tree.” <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Joʹab replied to the man who told him: “If you saw it, why did you not strike him down to the ground on the spot? Then I would have gladly given you ten pieces of silver and a belt.” <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But the man said to Joʹab: “Even if I were handed<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> 1,000 pieces of silver, I could not lift my hand against the king’s son, for we heard the king order you and A·bishʹai and Itʹtai, ‘Whoever you are, watch over the young man Abʹsa·lom.’ <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> If I had disobeyed and taken his life,<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> it could never have remained hidden from the king, and you would not have protected me.” <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> To this Joʹab said: “I am not going to waste any more time with you!” So he took three spikes<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> in his hand and drove them through the heart of Abʹsa·lom while he was still alive in the midst of the big tree. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then ten attendants who carried Joʹab’s weapons came and struck Abʹsa·lom until he was dead. <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Joʹab now blew the horn, and the men returned from chasing after Israel; Joʹab called for them to halt. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They took Abʹsa·lom and threw him into a big pit in the forest and piled up over him a very big heap of stones. And all Israel fled to their homes.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now Abʹsa·lom, while he was alive, had taken and set up for himself a pillar in the Valley<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> of the King, for he said: “I have no son to preserve the memory of my name.” So he named the pillar after himself, and it is called Abʹsa·lom’s Monument to this day.</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="pos77555"></span><span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> A·himʹa·az the son of Zaʹdok said: “Let me run, please, and break the news to the king, for Jehovah has given him justice by freeing him from his enemies.” <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Joʹab said to him: “You will not be a bearer of news this day. You may break the news on another day, but today <span id="page467" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="467" data-before-text="467"></span>you will not break the news, because the king’s own son has died.” <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Joʹab said to a Cushʹite: “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” At that the Cushʹite bowed to Joʹab and ran off. <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> A·himʹa·az the son of Zaʹdok said once again to Joʹab: “Whatever happens, please let me also run behind the Cushʹite.” However, Joʹab said: “Why should you run, my son, when there is no news for you to tell?” <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Still he said: “Whatever happens, let me run.” So Joʹab said to him: “Run!” And A·himʹa·az ran by the way of the district of the Jordan,<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> and he eventually overtook the Cushʹite.</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Now David was sitting between the two city gates, and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by the wall. He looked up and saw a man running by himself. <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So the watchman called out and told the king. The king said: “If he is by himself, he has news to tell.” As he came steadily nearer, <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> the watchman saw another man running. The watchman then called to the gatekeeper: “Look! Another man running by himself!” The king said: “This one is also bringing news.” <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The watchman said: “I can see that the first man runs like A·himʹa·az the son of Zaʹdok,” so the king said: “He is a good man, and he comes with good news.” <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> A·himʹa·az then called out to the king: “All is well!” With that he bowed to the king with his face to the ground. Then he said: “May Jehovah your God be praised, who has surrendered the men who rebelled<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> against my lord the king!”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> However, the king said: “Is everything all right with the young man Abʹsa·lom?” To this A·himʹa·az said: “I saw the great commotion when Joʹab sent the king’s servant and your servant, but I did not know what it was.” <span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So the king said: “Step aside, stand here.” At that he stepped aside and stood there.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then the Cushʹite arrived, and the Cushʹite said: “Let my lord the king accept this news: Today Jehovah has brought justice by freeing you from the hand of all those who rebelled against you.” <span id="chapter18_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But the king said to the Cushʹite: “Is everything all right with the young man Abʹsa·lom?” To this the Cushʹite said: “May all the enemies of my lord the king and all those who rebelled against you to harm you become like the young man!”</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> This disturbed the king, and he went up to the roof chamber over the gateway and wept, saying as he walked: “My son Abʹsa·lom, my son, my son Abʹsa·lom! If only I had died instead of you, Abʹsa·lom my son, my son!”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p374" data-pid="374"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:2</span></a> Lit., “hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p375" data-pid="375"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:3</span></a> Lit., “set heart toward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p376" data-pid="376"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:9</span></a> Lit., “between the heavens and the earth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p377" data-pid="377"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:12</span></a> Lit., “were weighing upon my palms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p378" data-pid="378"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:13</span></a> Or “If I had dealt treacherously against his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:14</span></a> Or possibly, “darts; spears.” Lit., “rods.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:18</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:23</span></a> Lit., “the district.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061114-split18.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 18:28</span></a> Lit., “lifted up their hand.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
