<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_26.xhtml">1 - 65</a></p>
<p id="p305" data-pid="305" class="p305 sb"><span id="pos125981"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26</strong> </span>After the scourge, Jehovah said to Moses and El·e·aʹzar the son of Aaron the priest: <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Take a census of the whole assembly of the Israelites from 20 years of age and up, by their paternal houses, counting all those who can serve in the army in Israel.” <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Moses and El·e·aʹzar the priest spoke with them in the desert plains of Moʹab by the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho, saying: <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Take a census of them from the age of 20 years <span id="page256" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="256" data-before-text="256"></span>and up, just as Jehovah commanded Moses.”</p>
<p id="p306" data-pid="306" class="p306 sb">Now the sons of Israel who went out of the land of Egypt were: <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Reuʹben, Israel’s firstborn; Reuʹben’s sons were: of Haʹnoch, the family of the Haʹnoch·ites; of Palʹlu, the family of the Palʹlu·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> of Hezʹron, the family of the Hezʹron·ites; of Carʹmi, the family of the Carʹmites. <span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> These were the families of the Reuʹben·ites, and their registered ones amounted to 43,730.</p>
<p id="p307" data-pid="307" class="p307 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The son of Palʹlu was E·liʹab. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And the sons of E·liʹab were Nemʹu·el, Daʹthan, and A·biʹram. This Daʹthan and A·biʹram were chosen ones of the assembly who fought against Moses and Aaron along with Korʹah’s group when they fought against Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p308" data-pid="308" class="p308 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then the earth opened<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> and swallowed them up. As for Korʹah, he died with his supporters when the fire consumed 250 men. And they became a warning example. <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> However, the sons of Korʹah did not die.</p>
<p id="p309" data-pid="309" class="p309 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The sons of Simʹe·on by their families were: of Nemʹu·el, the family of the Nemʹu·el·ites; of Jaʹmin, the family of the Jaʹmin·ites; of Jaʹchin, the family of the Jaʹchin·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> of Zeʹrah, the family of the Zeʹrah·ites; of Shaʹul, the family of the Sha·uʹlites. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These were the families of the Simʹe·on·ites: 22,200.</p>
<p id="p310" data-pid="310" class="p310 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The sons of Gad by their families were: of Zeʹphon, the family of the Zeʹphon·ites; of Hagʹgi, the family of the Hagʹgites; of Shuʹni, the family of the Shuʹnites; <span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> of Ozʹni, the family of the Ozʹnites; of Eʹri, the family of the Eʹrites; <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> of Arʹod, the family of the Arʹod·ites; of A·reʹli, the family of the A·reʹlites. <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> These were the families of the sons of Gad, and their registered ones were 40,500.</p>
<p id="p311" data-pid="311" class="p311 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Judah were Er and Oʹnan. However, Er and Oʹnan died in the land of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And the sons of Judah by their families were: of Sheʹlah, the family of the She·laʹnites; of Peʹrez, the family of the Perʹe·zites; of Zeʹrah, the family of the Zeʹrah·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And the sons of Peʹrez were: of Hezʹron, the family of the Hezʹron·ites; of Haʹmul, the family of the Ha·muʹlites. <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> These were the families of Judah, and their registered ones were 76,500.</p>
<p id="p312" data-pid="312" class="p312 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The sons of Isʹsa·char by their families were: of Toʹla, the family of the Toʹla·ites; of Puʹvah, the family of the Puʹnites; <span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> of Jaʹshub, the family of the Jashʹu·bites; of Shimʹron, the family of the Shimʹron·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> These were the families of Isʹsa·char, and their registered ones were 64,300.</p>
<p id="p313" data-pid="313" class="p313 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The sons of Zebʹu·lun by their families were: of Seʹred, the family of the Serʹe·dites; of Eʹlon, the family of the Eʹlon·ites; of Jahʹle·el, the family of the Jahʹle·el·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> These were the families of the Zebʹu·lun·ites, and their registered ones were 60,500.</p>
<p id="p314" data-pid="314" class="p314 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The sons of Joseph by their families were: Ma·nasʹseh and Eʹphra·im. <span id="chapter26_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The sons of Ma·nasʹseh were: of Maʹchir, the family of the Maʹchir·ites; and Maʹchir became father to Gilʹe·ad; of Gilʹe·ad, the family of the Gilʹe·ad·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> These were the sons of Gilʹe·ad: of Ieʹzer, the family of the Ieʹzer·ites; of Heʹlek, the family of the Heʹlek·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> of Asʹri·el, the family of the Asʹri·el·ites; of Sheʹchem, the family of the Sheʹchem·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> of She·miʹda, the family of the She·miʹda·ites; of Heʹpher, the family of the <span id="page257" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="257" data-before-text="257"></span>Heʹpher·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Now Ze·loʹphe·had the son of Heʹpher had no sons, only daughters, and the names of the daughters of Ze·loʹphe·had were Mahʹlah, Noah, Hogʹlah, Milʹcah, and Tirʹzah. <span id="chapter26_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> These were the families of Ma·nasʹseh, and their registered ones were 52,700.</p>
<p id="p315" data-pid="315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> These were the sons of Eʹphra·im by their families: of Shuʹthe·lah, the family of the Shuʹthel·aʹhites; of Beʹcher, the family of the Beʹcher·ites; of Taʹhan, the family of the Taʹhan·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And these were the sons of Shuʹthe·lah: of Eʹran, the family of the Eʹran·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> These were the families of the sons of Eʹphra·im, and their registered ones were 32,500. These were the sons of Joseph by their families.</p>
<p id="p316" data-pid="316" class="p316 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> The sons of Benjamin by their families were: of Beʹla, the family of the Beʹla·ites; of Ashʹbel, the family of the Ashʹbel·ites; of A·hiʹram, the family of the A·hiʹram·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> of She·phuʹpham, the family of the Shuʹpham·ites; of Huʹpham, the family of the Huʹpham·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> The sons of Beʹla were Ard and Naʹa·man: of Ard, the family of the Ardʹites; of Naʹa·man, the family of the Naʹa·mites. <span id="chapter26_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> These were the sons of Benjamin by their families, and their registered ones were 45,600.</p>
<p id="p317" data-pid="317" class="p317 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> These were the sons of Dan by their families: of Shuʹham, the family of the Shuʹham·ites. These were the families of Dan by their families. <span id="chapter26_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> All the families of the Shuʹham·ites, of their registered ones, were 64,400.</p>
<p id="p318" data-pid="318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> The sons of Ashʹer by their families were: of Imʹnah, the family of the Imʹnites; of Ishʹvi, the family of the Ishʹvites; of Be·riʹah, the family of the Be·riʹites; <span id="chapter26_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> of the sons of Be·riʹah: of Heʹber, the family of the Heʹber·ites; of Malʹchi·el, the family of the Malʹchi·el·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> The name of Ashʹer’s daughter was Seʹrah. <span id="chapter26_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> These were the families of the sons of Ashʹer, and their registered ones were 53,400.</p>
<p id="p319" data-pid="319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> The sons of Naphʹta·li by their families were: of Jahʹze·el, the family of the Jahʹze·el·ites; of Guʹni, the family of the Guʹnites; <span id="chapter26_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> of Jeʹzer, the family of the Jeʹzer·ites; of Shilʹlem, the family of the Shilʹlem·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> These were the families of Naphʹta·li by their families, and their registered ones were 45,400.</p>
<p id="p320" data-pid="320" class="p320 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> This is the total of those registered of the Israelites: 601,730.</p>
<p id="p321" data-pid="321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> After that Jehovah said to Moses: <span id="chapter26_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> “Among these the land should be divided as an inheritance according to the list of the names.<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> For the larger groups, you should increase the inheritance, and for the smaller groups, you should reduce the inheritance. Each group’s inheritance should be given in proportion to the number of those registered. <span id="chapter26_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> However, the land should be apportioned by lot. They should receive their inheritance according to the names of the tribes of their fathers. <span id="chapter26_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Each inheritance will be determined by lot and apportioned among the larger and the smaller groups.”</p>
<p id="p322" data-pid="322" class="p322 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Now these were the registered ones of the Levites by their families: of Gerʹshon, the family of the Gerʹshon·ites; of Koʹhath, the family of the Koʹhath·ites; of Me·rarʹi, the family of the Me·rarʹites. <span id="chapter26_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> These were the families of the Levites: the family of the Libʹnites, the family of the Hebʹron·ites, the <span id="page258" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="258" data-before-text="258"></span>family of the Mahʹlites, the family of the Muʹshites, the family of the Korʹah·ites.</p>
<p id="p323" data-pid="323" class="p323 sb">Koʹhath became father to Amʹram. <span id="chapter26_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> And the name of Amʹram’s wife was Jochʹe·bed, Leʹvi’s daughter, whom his wife bore to Leʹvi in Egypt. And to Amʹram she bore Aaron and Moses and their sister Mirʹi·am. <span id="chapter26_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> Then to Aaron there were born Naʹdab, A·biʹhu, El·e·aʹzar, and Ithʹa·mar. <span id="chapter26_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> But Naʹdab and A·biʹhu died for presenting unauthorized fire before Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p324" data-pid="324" class="p324 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> The total of those registered was 23,000, all males from a month old and up. For they were not registered among the Israelites, because no inheritance was to be given to them among the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p325" data-pid="325" class="p325 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> These were the ones registered by Moses and El·e·aʹzar the priest when they registered the Israelites in the desert plains of Moʹab by the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho. <span id="chapter26_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> But among them there was no one who had been registered by Moses and Aaron the priest in the census of the Israelites taken in the wilderness of Siʹnai. <span id="chapter26_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> For Jehovah had said concerning them: “They will die without fail in the wilderness.” So there was not a man left of them except Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p id="p591" data-pid="591"><a href="1001061108-split26.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 26:10</span></a> Lit., “opened its mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p592" data-pid="592"><a href="1001061108-split26.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 26:53</span></a> Or “proportionate to the number of names listed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
