<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_10.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="pos51782"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>Jehovah then said to Moses: <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Make two trumpets for yourself; make them of hammered silver, and use them to summon the assembly and to break up the camps. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When both of them are blown, the whole assembly must be summoned to you at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If just one is blown, only the chieftains, the heads of the thousands of Israel, will be summoned to you.</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “When you sound a fluctuating trumpet blast, the camps of those to the east should depart. <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When you sound a fluctuating trumpet blast a second time, the camps of those to the south should depart. They should sound the trumpet blasts in this way each time one of them departs.</p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Now when calling the congregation together, you should blow the trumpets, but not with fluctuating blasts. <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Aaron’s sons, the priests, should blow the trumpets, and the use of them will serve as a lasting statute for you throughout your generations.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “If you should go to war in your land against an oppressor who is harassing you, you should sound a war call on the trumpets, and you will be remembered by Jehovah your God and be saved from your enemies.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Also, on your joyous occasions—your festivals and at the beginning of your months—you are to sound the trumpets over your burnt offerings and your communion sacrifices; they will serve as a reminder for you before your God. I am Jehovah your God.”</p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="pos53186"></span><span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now in the second year, in the second month, on the 20th day of the month, the cloud lifted from over the tabernacle of the Testimony. <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So the Israelites began to pull away from the wilderness of Siʹnai in the order established for their departure, and the cloud settled in the wilderness of Paʹran. <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> This was the first time they departed following the order of Jehovah through Moses.</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="pos53594"></span><span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of Judah departed first by their companies,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> and Nahʹshon the son of <span id="page232" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="232" data-before-text="232"></span>Am·minʹa·dab was over its company. <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Isʹsa·char was Ne·thanʹel the son of Zuʹar. <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Zebʹu·lun was E·liʹab the son of Heʹlon.</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When the tabernacle was taken down, the sons of Gerʹshon and the sons of Me·rarʹi, who carried the tabernacle, departed.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then the three-tribe division of the camp of Reuʹben departed by their companies,<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> and E·liʹzur the son of Shedʹe·ur was over its company. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Simʹe·on was She·luʹmi·el the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai. <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Gad was E·liʹa·saph the son of Deuʹel.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then the Koʹhath·ites, who carried the sanctuary items, departed. The tabernacle was to be set up by the time they arrived.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of Eʹphra·im departed by their companies,<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> and E·lishʹa·ma the son of Am·miʹhud was over its company. <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Ma·nasʹseh was Ga·maʹli·el the son of Pe·dahʹzur. <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abʹi·dan the son of Gid·e·oʹni.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of Dan departed by their companies,<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> forming the rear guard for all the camps, and A·hi·eʹzer the son of Am·mi·shadʹdai was over its company. <span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Ashʹer was Paʹgi·el the son of Ochʹran. <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Over the company of the tribe of the sons of Naphʹta·li was A·hiʹra the son of Eʹnan. <span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> This was the order of departure that the Israelites and their companies<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> followed when they would depart.</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="pos55430"></span><span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Moses said to Hoʹbab the son of Reuʹel<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> the Midʹi·an·ite, the father-in-law of Moses: “We are setting out for the place about which Jehovah said, ‘I will give it to you.’ Do come with us, and we will treat you well, because Jehovah has promised good things for Israel.” <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But he said to him: “I will not go. I will return to my own country and to my relatives.” <span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> At this he said: “Please do not leave us, for you know where we should camp in the wilderness, and you can serve as our guide.<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And if you do come with us, whatever goodness Jehovah shows to us, we will surely show to you.”</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So they began marching from the mountain of Jehovah for a journey of three days, and the ark of Jehovah’s covenant traveled before them for the three-day journey to search out a resting-place for them. <span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And Jehovah’s cloud was over them by day when they set out from the encampment.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos56352"></span><span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Whenever the Ark was moved, Moses would say: “Rise up, O Jehovah, and let your enemies be scattered, and let those who hate you flee from before you.” <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And when it would rest, he would say: “Do return, O Jehovah, to the countless<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> thousands of Israel.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p471" data-pid="471"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:14</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p472" data-pid="472"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:18</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p473" data-pid="473"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:22</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p474" data-pid="474"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:25</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p475" data-pid="475"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:28</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p476" data-pid="476"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:29</span></a> That is, Jethro.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p477" data-pid="477"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:31</span></a> Or “eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p478" data-pid="478"><a href="1001061108-split10.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 10:36</span></a> Or “myriads of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
