<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_14.xhtml">1 - 45</a></p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos68542"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>Then all the assembly raised their voice, and the people continued crying out and weeping all through that night. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> All the Israelites began to murmur against Moses and Aaron, and the whole assembly spoke against them, saying: “If only we had died in the land of Egypt, or if only we had died in this wilderness! <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Why is Jehovah bringing us to this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and children will become plunder. Is it not better for us to return to Egypt?” <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They were even saying to one another: “Let us appoint a leader and return to Egypt!”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="page237" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="237" data-before-text="237"></span><span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this Moses and Aaron fell with their faces to the ground before the whole assembled congregation of the Israelites. <span id="pos69239"></span><span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Joshua the son of Nun and Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh, who were among those who spied out the land, ripped their garments apart, <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and they said this to all the assembly of the Israelites: “The land that we passed through to spy out is a very, very good land. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> If Jehovah is pleased with us, he will certainly bring us into this land and give it to us, a land that is flowing with milk and honey. <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But you must not rebel against Jehovah, and you must not fear the people of the land, for we will devour them.<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> Their protection has been removed from them, and Jehovah is with us. Do not fear them.”</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> However, all the assembly talked of stoning them. But Jehovah’s glory appeared on the tent of meeting to all the people of Israel.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos69996"></span><span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “How much longer will this people treat me without respect, and how much longer will they not put faith in me in spite of all the signs that I performed among them? <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Let me strike them with pestilence and drive them away, and let me make you into a nation greater and mightier than they are.”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But Moses said to Jehovah: “Then the Egyptians, from whose midst you brought this people out by your power, will hear, <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and they will speak about it to the inhabitants of this land. These also have heard that you, Jehovah, are among this people and have appeared to them face-to-face. You are Jehovah, and your cloud is standing over them, and you are going before them in the pillar of cloud by day and in the pillar of fire by night. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> If you put this people to death all at once,<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> the nations who have heard of your fame would say this: <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> ‘Jehovah was not able to bring this people into the land he swore to give them, so he slaughtered them in the wilderness.’ <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Please, now, Jehovah, let your power be great, as you promised when you said: <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> ‘Jehovah, slow to anger and abundant in loyal love,<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> pardoning error and transgression, but he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation.’ <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Forgive, please, the error of this people according to your great loyal love, just as you have pardoned this people from Egypt until now.”</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="pos71522"></span><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said: “I forgive them according to your word. <span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But on the other hand, as surely as I live, all the earth will be filled with the glory of Jehovah. <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, not one of the men who have seen my glory and my signs that I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness and yet have kept testing me these ten times and have not listened to my voice <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> will ever see the land about which I swore to their fathers. No, not one of those treating me without respect will see it. <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But because my servant Caʹleb had a different spirit and kept following after me wholeheartedly, I will certainly bring him into the land where he went, and his offspring will take possession of it. <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Since the A·malʹek·ites and <span id="page238" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="238" data-before-text="238"></span>the Caʹnaan·ites are dwelling in the valley,<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> you should turn back tomorrow and set off for the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.”</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Moses and Aaron: <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “How much longer will this evil assembly keep up this murmuring against me? I have heard what the Israelites are murmuring against me. <span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Say to them, ‘“As surely as I live,” declares Jehovah, “I will do to you just what I have heard you speak! <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In this wilderness your corpses will fall, yes, the whole number of you from 20 years old and up who were registered, all of you who have murmured against me. <span id="chapter14_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> None of you will enter into the land that I swore<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> to have you reside in except Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “‘“And I will bring in your children, who you said would become plunder, and they will get to know the land that you have rejected. <span id="chapter14_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But your own corpses will fall in this wilderness. <span id="chapter14_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Now your sons will become shepherds in the wilderness 40 years, and they will have to answer for your acts of unfaithfulness<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> until the last one of your corpses falls in the wilderness. <span id="chapter14_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> According to the number of the days that you spied out the land, 40 days, a day for a year, a day for a year, you will answer for your errors 40 years, for you will know what it means to oppose me.<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a></p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “‘“I, Jehovah, have spoken. This is what I will do to all this evil assembly, those who have gathered together against me: In this wilderness they will come to their end, and here they will die. <span id="chapter14_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> The men whom Moses sent to spy out the land and who caused the whole assembly to murmur against him when they returned with a bad report about the land, <span id="chapter14_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> yes, the men who brought back the bad report about the land will be struck down and die before Jehovah. <span id="chapter14_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But Joshua the son of Nun and Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh, who were among those who went to spy out the land, will certainly keep living.”’”</p>
<p id="p154" data-pid="154" class="p154 sb"><span id="pos74256"></span><span id="chapter14_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> When Moses spoke these words to all the Israelites, the people began to mourn a great deal. <span id="chapter14_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Moreover, they got up early in the morning and tried to go up to the top of the mountain, saying: “Here we are ready to go up to the place that Jehovah spoke about, for we have sinned.” <span id="chapter14_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> But Moses said: “Why are you going beyond the order of Jehovah? This will not succeed. <span id="chapter14_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Do not go up, for Jehovah is not with you; and you will be defeated by your enemies. <span id="chapter14_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> For the A·malʹek·ites and the Caʹnaan·ites are there to face you, and you will fall by the sword. Because you turned away from following Jehovah, Jehovah will not be with you.”</p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> However, they presumptuously went toward the top of the mountain, but the ark of Jehovah’s covenant and Moses did not move away from the middle of the camp. <span id="chapter14_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Then the A·malʹek·ites and the Caʹnaan·ites who were dwelling in that mountain came down and struck them, scattering them as far as Horʹmah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p500" data-pid="500"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:9</span></a> Lit., “for they are bread to us.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p501" data-pid="501"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:15</span></a> Lit., “as one man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p502" data-pid="502"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:18</span></a> Or “loving-kindness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p503" data-pid="503"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:25</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p504" data-pid="504"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:30</span></a> Lit., “I lifted my hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p505" data-pid="505"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:33</span></a> Lit., “prostitution.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p506" data-pid="506"><a href="1001061108-split14.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 14:34</span></a> Or “to have me as an enemy.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
