<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_12.xhtml">1 - 8</a></p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos45545"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>Jehovah went on to say to Moses: <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Tell the Israelites, ‘If a woman becomes pregnant<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> and gives birth to a male, she will be unclean for seven days, just as she is in the days of the impurity when she is menstruating. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> On the eighth day, the flesh of his foreskin will be circumcised. <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> She will continue cleansing herself from the blood for the next 33 days. She should not touch any holy thing, and she should not come into the holy place until she fulfills the days of her purification.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “‘If she should give birth to a female, she will then be unclean for 14 days, just as she would be during her menstruation. She will continue cleansing herself from the blood for the next 66 days. <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When the days of her purification for a son or a daughter are completed, she will bring a young ram in its first year for a burnt offering and a young pigeon or a turtledove for a sin offering to the entrance of the tent of meeting, to the priest. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He will present it before Jehovah and make atonement for her, and she will be clean from her flow of blood. This is the law about the woman who gives birth to either a male or a female. <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But if she cannot afford a sheep, she must then take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a burnt offering and one for a sin offering, and the priest will make atonement for her, and she will be clean.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061107-split12.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 12:2</span></a> Or “conceives seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
