<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_33.xhtml">1 - 56</a></p>
<p id="p373" data-pid="373" class="p373 sb"><span id="pos162121"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33</strong> </span>These were the stages of the journey of the people of Israel when they went out of the land of Egypt by their companies<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> under the direction of Moses and Aaron. <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Moses kept recording the departure places by the stages of their journey at the order of Jehovah, and these were their stages from one departure place to another: <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They departed from Ramʹe·ses in the first month, on the 15th day of the month. On the very day after the Passover, the Israelites went out with confidence<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> before the eyes of all the Egyptians. <span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Meanwhile, the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn whom Jehovah had struck down among them, for Jehovah had executed judgments on their gods.</p>
<p id="p374" data-pid="374" class="p374 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So the Israelites departed from Ramʹe·ses and camped at Sucʹcoth. <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then they departed from Sucʹcoth and camped at Eʹtham, which is on the edge of the wilderness. <span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Next they departed from Eʹtham and turned back toward Pi·ha·hiʹroth, which is in view of Baʹal-zeʹphon, and they camped before Migʹdol. <span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> After that they departed from Pi·ha·hiʹroth and passed through the midst of the sea to the wilderness and kept marching a three-day journey in the wilderness of Eʹtham and camped at Maʹrah.</p>
<p id="p375" data-pid="375" class="p375 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then they departed from Maʹrah and came to Eʹlim. Now in Eʹlim there were 12 springs of water and 70 palm trees, so they camped there. <span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Next they departed from Eʹlim and camped by the Red Sea. <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> After that they departed from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin. <span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then they departed from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Dophʹkah. <span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Later they departed from Dophʹkah and camped at Aʹlush. <span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They next departed from Aʹlush and camped at Rephʹi·dim, where there was no water for the people to drink. <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> After that they departed from Rephʹi·dim and camped in the wilderness of Siʹnai.</p>
<p id="p376" data-pid="376" class="p376 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They departed from the wilderness of Siʹnai and camped at Kibʹroth-hat·taʹa·vah. <span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then they departed from Kibʹroth-hat·taʹa·vah and camped at Ha·zeʹroth. <span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> After that they departed from Ha·zeʹroth and camped at Rithʹmah. <span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Next they departed from Rithʹmah and camped at Rimʹmon-peʹrez. <span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then they departed from Rimʹmon-peʹrez and camped at Libʹnah. <span id="chapter33_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> They departed from Libʹnah and camped at Risʹsah. <span id="chapter33_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Next they departed from Risʹsah and camped at Ke·he·laʹthah. <span id="page268" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="268" data-before-text="268"></span><span id="chapter33_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then they departed from Ke·he·laʹthah and camped at Mount Sheʹpher.</p>
<p id="p377" data-pid="377" class="p377 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After that they departed from Mount Sheʹpher and camped at Har·aʹdah. <span id="chapter33_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then they departed from Har·aʹdah and camped at Mak·heʹloth. <span id="chapter33_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Next they departed from Mak·heʹloth and camped at Taʹhath. <span id="chapter33_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> After that they departed from Taʹhath and camped at Teʹrah. <span id="chapter33_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then they departed from Teʹrah and camped at Mithʹkah. <span id="chapter33_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Later they departed from Mithʹkah and camped at Hash·moʹnah. <span id="chapter33_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Next they departed from Hash·moʹnah and camped at Mo·seʹroth. <span id="chapter33_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then they departed from Mo·seʹroth and camped at Benʹe-jaʹa·kan. <span id="chapter33_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And they departed from Benʹe-jaʹa·kan and camped at Hor-hag·gidʹgad. <span id="chapter33_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Next they departed from Hor-hag·gidʹgad and camped at Jotʹba·thah. <span id="chapter33_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Later they departed from Jotʹba·thah and camped at A·broʹnah. <span id="chapter33_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then they departed from A·broʹnah and camped at Eʹzi·on-geʹber. <span id="chapter33_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> After that they departed from Eʹzi·on-geʹber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, that is, Kaʹdesh.</p>
<p id="p378" data-pid="378" class="p378 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Later they departed from Kaʹdesh and camped at Mount Hor, on the frontier of the land of Eʹdom. <span id="chapter33_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And Aaron the priest went up into Mount Hor at the order of Jehovah and died there in the 40th year after the Israelites left the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first of the month. <span id="chapter33_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Aaron was 123 years old at his death on Mount Hor.</p>
<p id="p379" data-pid="379" class="p379 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Now the king of Aʹrad, the Caʹnaan·ite who was dwelling in the Negʹeb in the land of Caʹnaan, heard about the coming of the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p380" data-pid="380" class="p380 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> In time they departed from Mount Hor and camped at Zal·moʹnah. <span id="chapter33_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> After that they departed from Zal·moʹnah and camped at Puʹnon. <span id="chapter33_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Next they departed from Puʹnon and camped at Oʹboth. <span id="chapter33_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Then they departed from Oʹboth and camped at Iʹye-abʹa·rim, on the border of Moʹab. <span id="chapter33_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Later they departed from Iʹyim and camped at Diʹbon-gad. <span id="chapter33_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> After that they departed from Diʹbon-gad and camped at Alʹmon-dib·la·thaʹim. <span id="chapter33_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Then they departed from Alʹmon-dib·la·thaʹim and camped in the mountains of Abʹa·rim before Neʹbo. <span id="chapter33_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Finally they departed from the mountains of Abʹa·rim and camped on the desert plains of Moʹab by the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho. <span id="chapter33_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> They continued camping along the Jordan, from Beth-jeshʹi·moth as far as Aʹbel-shitʹtim, on the desert plains of Moʹab.</p>
<p id="p381" data-pid="381" class="p381 sb"><span id="pos166803"></span><span id="chapter33_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke to Moses on the desert plains of Moʹab by the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho, saying: <span id="chapter33_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘You are crossing the Jordan into the land of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter33_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> You must drive away all the inhabitants of the land from before you and destroy all their carvings of stone and all their metal statues,<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> and you should demolish all their sacred high places. <span id="chapter33_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> And you will take possession of the land and dwell in it, because I will certainly give you the land as a possession. <span id="chapter33_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> You must apportion the land by lot as a possession among your families. To the larger group you should increase his inheritance, and to the smaller group you should reduce his inheritance. Everyone’s inheritance will be where his lot falls. You will receive your property as an inheritance by the tribes of your fathers.</p>
<p id="p382" data-pid="382" class="p382 sb"><span id="page269" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="269" data-before-text="269"></span><span id="chapter33_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> “‘If, though, you do not drive the inhabitants of the land away from before you, those whom you allow to remain will be as irritants in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they will harass you in the land where you will dwell. <span id="chapter33_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> And I will do to you what I intended to do to them.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p634" data-pid="634"><a href="1001061108-split33.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:1</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p635" data-pid="635"><a href="1001061108-split33.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:3</span></a> Lit., “with uplifted hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p id="p636" data-pid="636"><a href="1001061108-split33.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:52</span></a> Or “molten statues.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
