<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_2.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos4544"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Therefore you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are, if you judge; for when you judge another, you condemn yourself, because you who judge practice the same things. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now we know that God’s judgment is in harmony with truth, against those who practice such things.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But do you suppose, O man, that while you judge those who practice such things and yet you do them, you will escape the judgment of God? <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Or do you despise the riches of his kindness and forbearance<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> and patience, because you do not know that God in his kindness is trying to lead you to repentance? <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But according to your stubbornness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath and of the revealing of God’s righteous judgment. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he will pay back to each one according to his works: <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> everlasting life to those who are seeking glory and honor and incorruptibleness by endurance in work that is good; <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> however, for those who are contentious and who disobey the truth but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and anger. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> There will be tribulation and distress on every person<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> who works what is harmful, on the Jew first and also on the Greek; <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> but glory and honor and peace for everyone who works what is good, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For there is no partiality with God.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For all those who sinned without law will also perish without law; but all those who sinned under law will be judged by law. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For the hearers of law are not the ones righteous before God, but the doers of law will be declared righteous. <span id="pos6155"></span><span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For when people of the nations, <span id="page1509" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1509" data-before-text="1509"></span>who do not have law, do by nature the things of the law, these people, although not having law, are a law to themselves. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They are the very ones who demonstrate the matter of the law to be written in their hearts, while their conscience is bearing witness with them, and by<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> their own thoughts they are being accused or even excused. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This will take place in the day when God through Christ Jesus judges the secret things of mankind, according to the good news I declare.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="pos6685"></span><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If, now, you are a Jew in name and rely on law and take pride in God, <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and you know his will and approve of things that are excellent because you are instructed<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> out of the Law, <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and you are convinced that you are a guide of the blind, a light for those in darkness, <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> a corrector of the unreasonable ones, a teacher of young children, and having the framework of the knowledge and of the truth in the Law— <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> do you, however, the one teaching someone else, not teach yourself? You, the one preaching, “Do not steal,” do you steal? <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You, the one saying, “Do not commit adultery,” do you commit adultery? You, the one abhorring idols, do you rob temples? <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You who take pride in law, do you dishonor God by your transgressing of the Law? <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For “the name of God is being blasphemed among the nations because of you,” just as it is written.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos7573"></span><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Circumcision is, in fact, of benefit only if you practice law; but if you are a transgressor of law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> If, therefore, an uncircumcised person keeps the righteous requirements of the Law, his uncircumcision will be counted as circumcision, will it not? <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And the physically uncircumcised person will, by carrying out the Law, judge you who are a transgressor of law despite having its written code and circumcision. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> For he is not a Jew who is one on the outside, nor is circumcision something on the outside, on the flesh. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But he is a Jew who is one on the inside, and his circumcision is that of the heart by spirit and not by a written code. That person’s praise comes from God, not from people.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p103" data-pid="103"><a href="1001061149-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 2:4</span></a> Or “tolerance.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p104" data-pid="104"><a href="1001061149-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 2:9</span></a> Or “the soul of every man.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p105" data-pid="105"><a href="1001061149-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 2:15</span></a> Lit., “between.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p106" data-pid="106"><a href="1001061149-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 2:18</span></a> Or “orally instructed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
