<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061162"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Hebrews</a>  <a href="biblechapternav58.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav58_2.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2022"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>That is why it is necessary for us to pay more than the usual attention to the things we have heard, so that we never drift away. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For if the word spoken through angels proved to be sure, and every transgression and disobedient act received a punishment in harmony with justice, <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> how will we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation? For it began to be spoken through our Lord <span id="page1602" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1602" data-before-text="1602"></span>and was verified for us by those who heard him, <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> while God joined in bearing witness with signs and wonders<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and various powerful works and with the holy spirit distributed according to his will.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos2627"></span><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For it is not to angels that he has subjected the inhabited earth to come, about which we are speaking. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But in one place a certain witness said: “What is man that you keep him in mind, or a son of man that you take care of him? <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You made him a little lower than angels; you crowned him with glory and honor, and appointed him over the works of your hands. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> All things you subjected under his feet.” By subjecting all things to him, God left nothing that is not subject to him. Now, though, we do not yet see all things in subjection to him. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But we do see Jesus, who was made a little lower than angels, now crowned with glory and honor for having suffered death, so that by God’s undeserved kindness he might taste death for everyone.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3388"></span><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For it was fitting that the one for whom and through whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the Chief Agent of their salvation perfect through sufferings. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For both the one who is sanctifying and those who are being sanctified all stem from one, and for this reason he is not ashamed to call them brothers, <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> as he says: “I will declare your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you with song.” <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And again: “I will put my trust in him.” And again: “Look! I and the young children, whom Jehovah<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> gave me.”</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Therefore, since the “young children” are sharers of blood and flesh, he also similarly shared in the same things, so that through his death he might bring to nothing the one having the means to cause death, that is, the Devil, <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and that he might set free<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> all those who were held in slavery all their lives by their fear of death. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For it is not really angels he is assisting, but he is assisting Abraham’s offspring.<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> <span id="pos4424"></span><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Consequently, he had to become like his “brothers” in all respects, so that he could become a merciful and faithful high priest in things relating to God, in order to offer a propitiatory sacrifice<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> for the sins of the people. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Since he himself has suffered when being put to the test, he is able to come to the aid of those who are being put to the test.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p89" data-pid="89"><a href="1001061162-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 2:4</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p90" data-pid="90"><a href="1001061162-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 2:13</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p91" data-pid="91"><a href="1001061162-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 2:15</span></a> Or “emancipate.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p92" data-pid="92"><a href="1001061162-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 2:16</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p93" data-pid="93"><a href="1001061162-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Heb. 2:17</span></a> Or “to offer an atoning sacrifice; to make atonement.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
