<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_9.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos29297"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>Now the queen of Sheʹba heard the report about Solʹo·mon, so she came to Jerusalem to test Solʹo·mon with perplexing questions.<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> She was accompanied by a very impressive entourage,<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> with camels carrying balsam oil and great quantities of gold and precious stones. She went in to Solʹo·mon and spoke to him about everything that was close to her heart. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon then answered all her questions. There was nothing too difficult for<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> Solʹo·mon to explain to her.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When the queen of Sheʹba had seen Solʹo·mon’s wisdom, the house that he built, <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> the food of his table, the seating of his servants, the table service of his waiters and their attire, his cupbearers and their attire, and his burnt sacrifices that he regularly offered up at the house of Jehovah, she was left completely breathless.<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So she said to the king: “The report that I heard in my own land about your achievements<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> and about your wisdom was true. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But I did not put faith in the reports until I had come and had seen it with my own eyes. And look! I had not been told the half of your great wisdom. You have far surpassed the report that I heard. <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Happy are your men, and happy are your servants who stand before you constantly, listening to your wisdom! <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> May Jehovah your God be praised, who has taken pleasure in you by putting you on his throne as king for Jehovah your God. Because your God loves Israel, in order to make it continue forever, he appointed you over it as king to administer justice and righteousness.”</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then she gave the king 120 talents<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> of gold and a great quantity of balsam oil and precious stones. Never again was such balsam oil brought in as what the queen of Sheʹba gave to King Solʹo·mon.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Moreover, the servants of Hiʹram and the servants of Solʹo·mon who brought gold from Oʹphir also brought algum timbers and precious stones. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The king made from the algum timbers stairs for the house of Jehovah and for the king’s house,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> as well as harps and stringed instruments for the singers. Nothing like them had ever been seen before in the land of Judah.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon also gave the queen of Sheʹba whatever she desired and asked for, more than<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> what she had brought to the king. Then she left and returned to her own land, together with her servants.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos31608"></span><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the weight of the gold that came to Solʹo·mon in one year amounted to 666 talents of gold, <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> besides that brought in by the merchants and the traders and all the kings of the Arabs and the governors of the land who were bringing gold and silver in to Solʹo·mon.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon made 200 large shields of alloyed gold (600 shekels<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> of alloyed gold went on each shield) <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and 300 bucklers<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> of alloyed gold (three miʹnas<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> of gold went on each <span id="page617" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="617" data-before-text="617"></span>buckler). Then the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebʹa·non.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The king also made a great ivory throne and overlaid it with pure gold. <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> There were six steps to the throne, and there was a gold footstool attached to the throne, and there were armrests on both sides of the seat, and two lions were standing beside the armrests. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And there were 12 lions standing on the six steps, one at each end of the six steps. No other kingdom had made anything like it. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> All the drinking vessels of King Solʹo·mon were of gold, and all the utensils of the House of the Forest of Lebʹa·non were of pure gold. There was nothing made of silver, for silver was considered as nothing in the days of Solʹo·mon. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For the king’s ships would go to Tarʹshish with the servants of Hiʹram. Once every three years, the ships of Tarʹshish would come loaded with gold and silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So King Solʹo·mon was greater than all the other kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And the kings of all the earth sought an audience with<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> Solʹo·mon to hear his wisdom that the true God had put in his heart. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They would each bring a gift—articles of silver, articles of gold, garments, armor, balsam oil, horses, and mules—and this continued year after year. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And Solʹo·mon had 4,000 stalls for his horses and chariots and 12,000 horses,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> and he kept them stationed in the chariot cities and close by the king in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And he ruled over all the kings from the River<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> to the land of the Phi·lisʹtines and to the boundary of Egypt. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The king made the silver in Jerusalem as plentiful as the stones, and cedarwood as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the She·pheʹlah. <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And they would bring horses to Solʹo·mon from Egypt and from all the other lands.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos33926"></span><span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Solʹo·mon, from beginning to end, is it not written among the words of Nathan the prophet, in the prophecy of A·hiʹjah the Shiʹlo·nite, and in the record of visions of Idʹdo the visionary concerning Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat? <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel for 40 years. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then Solʹo·mon was laid to rest with his forefathers. So they buried him in the City of David his father; and his son Re·ho·boʹam became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:1</span></a> Or “with riddles.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:1</span></a> Or “train.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:2</span></a> Lit., “nothing hidden from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:4</span></a> Lit., “there was no more spirit in her.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:5</span></a> Or “words.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:9</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:11</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:12</span></a> Or possibly, “in addition to gifts corresponding to the value of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:15</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:16</span></a> A small shield, often carried by archers.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:16</span></a> A mina in the Hebrew Scriptures equaled 570 g (18.35 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:23</span></a> Lit., “sought the face of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p303" data-pid="303"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:25</span></a> Or “horsemen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p304" data-pid="304"><a href="1001061118-split9.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 9:26</span></a> That is, the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
