<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ephesians 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061153"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ephesians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav49.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav49_4.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos9009"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Therefore I, the prisoner in the Lord, appeal to you to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called, <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> with all humility<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> and mildness, with patience, putting up with one another in love, <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> One body there is, and one spirit, just as you were called to the one hope of your calling; <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> one Lord, one faith, one baptism; <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now undeserved kindness was given to each one of us according to how the Christ measured out the free gift. <span id="pos9640"></span><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For it says: “When he ascended on high he carried away captives; <span id="page1567" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1567" data-before-text="1567"></span>he gave gifts in men.” <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now what does the expression “he ascended” mean but that he also descended into the lower regions, that is, the earth? <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The very one who descended is also the one who ascended far above all the heavens, so that he might give fullness to all things.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelizers,<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> some as shepherds and teachers, <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> with a view to the readjustment<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> of the holy ones, for ministerial work, to build up the body of the Christ, <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> until we all attain to the oneness<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> of the faith and of the accurate knowledge of the Son of God, to being a full-grown<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> man, attaining the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the Christ. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So we should no longer be children, tossed about as by waves and carried here and there by every wind of teaching by means of the trickery of men, by means of cunning in deceptive schemes. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But speaking the truth, let us by love grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> From him all the body is harmoniously joined together and made to cooperate through every joint that gives what is needed. When each respective member functions properly, this contributes to the growth of the body as it builds itself up in love.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos10996"></span><span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So this is what I say and bear witness to in the Lord, that you should no longer go on walking just as the nations also walk, in the futility<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> of their minds. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They are in darkness mentally and alienated from the life that belongs to God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the insensitivity<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> of their hearts. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Having gone past all moral sense, they gave themselves over to brazen conduct<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> to practice every sort of uncleanness with greediness.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But you did not learn the Christ to be like this, <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> if, indeed, you heard him and were taught by means of him, just as truth is in Jesus. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires. <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude,<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> and should put on the new personality that was created according to God’s will in true righteousness and loyalty.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Therefore, now that you have put away deceit, each one of you speak truth with his neighbor, because we are members belonging to one another. <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Be wrathful, but do not sin; do not let the sun set while you are still angry; <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> do not give the Devil an opportunity.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Let the one who steals steal no more; rather, let him do hard work, doing good work with his hands, so that he may have something to share with someone in need. <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Let a rotten word not come out of your mouth, but only what is good for building up as the need may be, to impart what is beneficial to the hearers. <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Also, <span id="page1568" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1568" data-before-text="1568"></span>do not be grieving<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> God’s holy spirit, with which you have been sealed for a day of releasing by ransom.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Put away from yourselves every kind of malicious bitterness, anger, wrath, screaming, and abusive speech, as well as everything injurious. <span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate, freely forgiving one another just as God also by Christ freely forgave you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p46" data-pid="46"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:2</span></a> Or “lowliness of mind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p47" data-pid="47"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:11</span></a> Or “proclaimers of the good news.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p48" data-pid="48"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:12</span></a> Or “training.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p49" data-pid="49"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:13</span></a> Or “unity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p50" data-pid="50"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:13</span></a> Or “mature.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p51" data-pid="51"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:17</span></a> Or “emptiness; vanity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p52" data-pid="52"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:18</span></a> Lit., “dulling.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p53" data-pid="53"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:19</span></a> Or “shameless conduct.” Greek, <em>a·selʹgei·a.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos12475">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p54" data-pid="54"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:23</span></a> Or “in the force actuating your mind.” Lit., “to the spirit of your mind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p55" data-pid="55"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:27</span></a> Or “neither allow place for the Devil.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p56" data-pid="56"><a href="1001061153-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 4:30</span></a> Or “cause sorrow to.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
