<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_19.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="pos75959"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>In the third month after the Israelites went out of the land of Egypt, on the same day, they came to the wilderness of Siʹnai. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> They pulled away from Rephʹi·dim and came to the wilderness of Siʹnai and camped in the wilderness. Israel camped there in front of the mountain.</p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Moses went up to the true God, and Jehovah called to him from the mountain, saying: “This is what you are to say to the house of Jacob and to tell the Israelites, <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> ‘You have seen for yourselves what I did to the Egyptians, in order to carry you on wings of eagles and bring you to myself. <span id="pos76547"></span><span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now if you will strictly obey my voice and keep my covenant, you will certainly become my special property<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> out of all peoples, for the whole earth belongs to me. <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You will become to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words that you are to say to the Israelites.”</p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So Moses went and summoned the elders of the people and declared to them all these words that Jehovah had commanded him. <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> After that all the people answered unanimously: “All that Jehovah has spoken, we are willing to do.” Moses immediately took the people’s response to Jehovah. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And Jehovah said to Moses: “Look! I am coming to you in a dark cloud, so that the people may hear when I speak with you and so that they may always put faith in you as well.” Then Moses reported the words of the people to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and they must wash their clothing. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And they must be ready for the third day, because on the third day Jehovah will come down upon Mount Siʹnai before the eyes of all the people. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> You must set boundaries for the people all around it and tell them, ‘Beware of going up to the mountain or touching its border. Anybody touching the mountain will surely be put to death. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> No hand is to touch him, but he will either be stoned or be shot through.<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> Whether beast or man, he will not live.’ But at the sound of the ram’s horn they may come up to the mountain.”</p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="pos78033"></span><span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and he began to sanctify the people, and they washed their clothing. <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He said to the people: “Get ready for the third day. Abstain from sexual relations.”<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a></p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> On the morning of the third day, there was thunder and <span id="page139" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="139" data-before-text="139"></span>lightning, and there was a heavy cloud on the mountain and a very loud sound of a horn, and all the people in the camp began to tremble. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Moses now brought the people out of the camp to meet the true God, and they took their place at the base of the mountain. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Mount Siʹnai smoked all over, because Jehovah came down upon it in fire; and its smoke was rising like the smoke of a kiln, and the whole mountain was trembling violently. <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> As the sound of the horn grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and the voice of the true God answered him.</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So Jehovah came down upon Mount Siʹnai to the top of the mountain. Then Jehovah called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jehovah now said to Moses: “Go down and warn the people not to try to force their way through to look at Jehovah, or many of them will perish. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And let the priests who regularly come near to Jehovah sanctify themselves, so that Jehovah may not strike<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> them.” <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Moses then said to Jehovah: “The people are not able to come up to Mount Siʹnai because you already warned us, saying, ‘Set boundaries around the mountain, and make it sacred.’” <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> However, Jehovah said to him: “Go, descend, and come back up, you and Aaron with you, but do not let the priests and the people force their way through to come up to Jehovah, so that he may not strike them.” <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So Moses descended to the people and told them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p477" data-pid="477"><a href="1001061106-split19.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 19:5</span></a> Or “treasured possession.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p478" data-pid="478"><a href="1001061106-split19.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 19:13</span></a> Perhaps shot with an arrow.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p479" data-pid="479"><a href="1001061106-split19.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 19:15</span></a> Lit., “Do not approach a woman.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p480" data-pid="480"><a href="1001061106-split19.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 19:22</span></a> Lit., “break through on.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
