<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_12.xhtml">1 - 59</a></p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="pos73617"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>In the meantime, when a crowd of so many thousands had gathered together that they were stepping on one another, he started by saying first to his disciples: “Watch out for the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But there is nothing carefully concealed that will not be revealed, and nothing secret that will not become known. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Therefore, whatever you say in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what you whisper in private rooms will be preached from the housetops. <span id="pos74115"></span><span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Moreover, I say to you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body and after this are not able to do anything more. <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But I will show you whom to fear: Fear the One who after killing has authority to throw into Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> Yes, I tell you, fear this One. <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Five sparrows sell for two coins of small value,<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> do they not? Yet not one of them is forgotten<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> by God. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Have no fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="pos74604"></span><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “I say to you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of man will also acknowledge him before the angels of God. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But whoever disowns me before men will be disowned before the angels of God. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And everyone who says a word against the Son of man, it will be forgiven him, but whoever blasphemes against the holy spirit will not be forgiven. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When they bring you in before public assemblies,<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> government officials, <span id="page1402" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1402" data-before-text="1402"></span>and authorities, do not become anxious about how or what you will speak in defense or what you will say, <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> for the holy spirit will teach you in that very hour the things you should say.”</p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="pos75247"></span><span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then someone in the crowd said to him: “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.” <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He said to him: “Man, who appointed me judge or arbitrator between you two?” <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Keep your eyes open and guard against every sort of greed,<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> because even when a person has an abundance, his life does not result from the things he possesses.” <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> With that he told them an illustration, saying: “The land of a rich man produced well. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he began reasoning within himself, ‘What should I do now that I have nowhere to gather my crops?’ <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then he said, ‘I will do this: I will tear down my storehouses and build bigger ones, and there I will gather all my grain and all my goods, <span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and I will say to myself:<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> “You<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> have many good things stored up for many years; take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.”’ <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But God said to him, ‘Unreasonable one, this night they are demanding your life<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> from you. Who, then, is to have the things you stored up?’ <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So it goes with the man who stores up treasure for himself but is not rich toward God.”</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos76359"></span><span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then he said to his disciples: “That is why I say to you, stop being anxious about your lives<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a> as to what you will eat or about your bodies as to what you will wear. <span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For the life<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a> is worth more than food and the body more than clothing. <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Consider the ravens: They neither sow seed nor reap; they have neither barn nor storehouse; yet God feeds them. Are you not worth much more than birds? <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Who of you by being anxious can add a cubit<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> to his life span? <span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> If, therefore, you cannot do such a small thing, why be anxious about the remaining things? <span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Consider how the lilies grow: They neither toil nor spin; but I tell you that not even Solʹo·mon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these. <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Now if this is how God clothes the vegetation in the field that today exists and tomorrow is cast into an oven, how much more will he clothe you, you with little faith! <span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So stop seeking what you will eat and what you will drink, and stop being in anxious suspense; <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> for all these are the things the nations of the world are eagerly pursuing, but your Father knows you need these things. <span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Instead, keep seeking his Kingdom, and these things will be added to you.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos77582"></span><span id="chapter12_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “Have no fear, little flock, for your Father has approved of giving you the Kingdom. <span id="chapter12_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Sell your belongings and give gifts of mercy.<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> Make money pouches that do not wear out, a never-failing treasure in the heavens, where no thief gets near and no moth consumes. <span id="chapter12_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> For where your treasure is, there your hearts will be also.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="pos77927"></span><span id="chapter12_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “Be dressed and ready<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> and have your lamps burning, <span id="chapter12_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> and you should be like men waiting for their master to return from the marriage, so when he comes and knocks, they may at once open to him. <span id="chapter12_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Happy are those <span id="page1403" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1403" data-before-text="1403"></span>slaves whom the master on coming finds watching! Truly I say to you, he will dress<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> himself for service and have them recline at the table and will come alongside and minister to them. <span id="chapter12_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And if he comes in the second watch,<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> even if in the third,<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> and finds them ready, happy are they! <span id="chapter12_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> But know this, if the householder had known at what hour the thief would come, he would not have let his house be broken into. <span id="chapter12_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> You also, keep ready, because at an hour that you do not think likely, the Son of man is coming.”</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos78695"></span><span id="chapter12_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Then Peter said: “Lord, are you telling this illustration just to us or also to everyone?” <span id="chapter12_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And the Lord said: “Who really is the faithful steward,<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> the discreet one,<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> whom his master will appoint over his body of attendants<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> to keep giving them their measure of food supplies at the proper time? <span id="chapter12_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Happy is that slave if his master on coming finds him doing so! <span id="chapter12_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> I tell you truthfully, he will appoint him over all his belongings. <span id="chapter12_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But if ever that slave should say in his heart, ‘My master delays coming,’ and starts to beat the male and female servants and to eat and drink and get drunk, <span id="chapter12_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> the master of that slave will come on a day that he is not expecting him and at an hour that he does not know, and he will punish him with the greatest severity and assign him a part with the unfaithful ones. <span id="chapter12_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Then that slave who understood the will of his master but did not get ready or do what he asked<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> will be beaten with many strokes. <span id="chapter12_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> But the one who did not understand and yet did things deserving of strokes will be beaten with few. Indeed, everyone to whom much was given, much will be demanded of him, and the one who was put in charge of much will have more than usual demanded of him.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos79937"></span><span id="chapter12_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> “I came to start a fire on the earth, and what more is there for me to wish if it has already been lit? <span id="chapter12_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Indeed, I have a baptism with which to be baptized, and how I am distressed until it is finished! <span id="chapter12_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Do you think I came to give peace on the earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. <span id="chapter12_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> For from now on there will be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three. <span id="chapter12_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos80557"></span><span id="chapter12_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Then he also said to the crowds: “When you see a cloud rising in the west, at once you say, ‘A storm is coming,’ and it happens. <span id="chapter12_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> And when you see that a south wind is blowing, you say, ‘There will be a heat wave,’ and it occurs. <span id="chapter12_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> Hypocrites, you know how to examine the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to examine this particular time? <span id="pos80938"></span><span id="chapter12_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Why do you not judge also for yourselves what is righteous? <span id="chapter12_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> For example, when you are going with your legal opponent to a ruler, while on the way, get to work to settle the dispute with him so that he may not summon you before the judge, and the judge deliver you to the court officer, and the court officer throw you into prison. <span id="chapter12_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> I tell you, <span id="page1404" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1404" data-before-text="1404"></span>you will certainly not get out of there until you pay over your last small coin.”<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p345" data-pid="345"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:5</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p346" data-pid="346"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:6</span></a> Lit., “for two assarions.” See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p347" data-pid="347"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:6</span></a> Or “overlooked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p348" data-pid="348"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:11</span></a> Or possibly, “before synagogues.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:15</span></a> Or “covetousness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p350" data-pid="350"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:19</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p351" data-pid="351"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:19</span></a> Or “Soul, you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:20</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p id="p353" data-pid="353"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:22</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p id="p354" data-pid="354"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:23</span></a> Or “the soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p355" data-pid="355"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p356" data-pid="356"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:33</span></a> Or “gifts to the poor.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38863">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p357" data-pid="357"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:35</span></a> Lit., “Let your loins be girded.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p358" data-pid="358"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:37</span></a> Or “gird.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p359" data-pid="359"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:38</span></a> From about 9:00 p.m. to midnight.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p360" data-pid="360"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:38</span></a> From midnight to about 3:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:42</span></a> Or “house manager.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p362" data-pid="362"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:42</span></a> Or “wise one.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:42</span></a> Or “household servants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p364" data-pid="364"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:47</span></a> Or “do according to his will.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p365" data-pid="365"><a href="1001061146-split12.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 12:59</span></a> Lit., “the last lepton.” See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
