<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">31</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_31.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb"><span id="pos132767"></span><span id="chapter31"></span><span id="chapter31_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>31</strong> </span>Now the Phi·lisʹtines were fighting against Israel. And the men of Israel fled from before the Phi·lisʹtines, and many fell slain on Mount Gil·boʹa. <span id="chapter31_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The Phi·lisʹtines kept in close range of Saul and his sons, and the Phi·lisʹtines struck down Jonʹa·than, A·binʹa·dab, and Malʹchi-shuʹa, Saul’s sons. <span id="chapter31_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The fighting grew fierce against Saul, and the archers found him, and he was severely wounded by the archers. <span id="chapter31_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Saul said to his armor-bearer: “Draw your sword and run me through with it, so that these uncircumcised men may not come and run me through and deal ruthlessly<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> with me.” But his armor-bearer was unwilling, because he was very much afraid. So Saul took the sword and fell on it. <span id="chapter31_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he too fell on his own sword and died with him. <span id="chapter31_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Thus Saul, his three sons, his armor-bearer, and all his men died together on that day. <span id="chapter31_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When the people of Israel who were in the region of the valley<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> and in the region of the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons had died, they began to abandon the cities and flee; the Phi·lisʹtines then came and occupied them.</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The next day, when the Phi·lisʹtines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gil·boʹa. <span id="chapter31_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So they cut off his head and stripped off his armor and sent word throughout the land of the Phi·lisʹtines to spread the news in the houses<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> of their idols and among the people. <span id="chapter31_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then they put his armor in the house of the Ashʹto·reth images and fastened his corpse to the wall of Beth-shan. <span id="chapter31_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When the inhabitants of Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad heard what the Phi·lisʹtines had done to Saul, <span id="chapter31_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> all the warriors rose and traveled all night and took the bodies of Saul and his sons off the wall of Beth-shan. They returned to Jaʹbesh and burned them there. <span id="chapter31_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jaʹbesh, and they fasted for seven days.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061113-split31.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 31:4</span></a> Or “abusively.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061113-split31.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 31:7</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061113-split31.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 31:9</span></a> Or “temples.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
