<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_11.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos43578"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>As soon as Jaʹbin king of Haʹzor heard of it, he sent word to Joʹbab king of Maʹdon, and to the king of Shimʹron, the king of Achʹshaph, <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> the kings who were in the northern mountainous region, those in the plains<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> south of Chinʹne·reth, those in the She·pheʹlah and on the slopes of Dor to the west, <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> the Caʹnaan·ites to the east and the west, the Amʹor·ites, the Hitʹtites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Jebʹu·sites in the mountainous region, and the Hiʹvites at the base of Herʹmon in the land of Mizʹpah. <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So they came out with all their armies, a vast multitude as numerous as the grains of sand on the seashore, together with very many horses and war chariots. <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> All these kings agreed to meet, and they came and camped together at the waters of Merʹom to fight against Israel.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At this Jehovah said to Joshua: “Do not be afraid because of them, for about this time tomorrow, I am giving over all of them slain to Israel. Their horses you must hamstring, and their chariots you must burn in the fire.” <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Joshua together with all the fighting men then launched a surprise attack against them along the waters of Merʹom. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jehovah gave them into Israel’s hand, and they defeated them and pursued them as far as Great Siʹdon and Misʹre·photh-maʹim and the Valley of Mizʹpeh to the east, and they struck them down until no survivors remained. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Joshua then did to them just as Jehovah had told him; he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots in the fire.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Moreover, Joshua then returned and captured Haʹzor and struck down its king with the sword, because Haʹzor had formerly been the head of all these kingdoms. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They struck down everyone<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> in it with the sword, devoting them to destruction. Not a breathing thing was left. Then he burned Haʹzor in the fire. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Joshua captured all the cities of these kings and defeated all their kings with the sword. He devoted them to destruction, just as Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> However, Israel did not burn any of the cities that stood on their mounds except Haʹzor; it was the only one Joshua burned. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> All the spoil of these cities and the livestock, the Israelites plundered for themselves. But they struck every human with the sword until they had annihilated each one. They did not let anyone who breathed remain. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Just as Jehovah had <span id="page340" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="340" data-before-text="340"></span>commanded Moses his servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did. He left nothing undone of all that Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos46101"></span><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Joshua conquered all this land, the mountainous region, all the Negʹeb, all the land of Goʹshen, the She·pheʹlah, the Arʹa·bah, and the mountainous region of Israel and its She·pheʹlah,<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> from Mount Haʹlak, which goes up to Seʹir, and as far as Baʹal-gad in the Valley of Lebʹa·non at the base of Mount Herʹmon, and he captured all their kings and defeated them, putting them to death. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Joshua waged war with all these kings for quite some time. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> There was no city that made peace with the Israelites except the Hiʹvites inhabiting Gibʹe·on. They conquered all the others by war. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> It was Jehovah who allowed their hearts to become stubborn so that they waged war against Israel, in order for him to devote them to destruction without any favorable consideration. They were to be annihilated, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> At that time Joshua wiped out the Anʹa·kim from the mountainous region, from Hebʹron, Deʹbir, Aʹnab, and all the mountainous region of Judah and all the mountainous region of Israel. Joshua devoted them and their cities to destruction. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> There were no Anʹa·kim left in the land of the Israelites; they remained only in Gazʹa, in Gath, and in Ashʹdod. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So Joshua took control of all the land, just as Jehovah had promised Moses, and then Joshua gave it as an inheritance to Israel by their shares to be divided among their tribes. And the land had rest from war.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p269" data-pid="269"><a href="1001061110-split11.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 11:2</span></a> Or “Arabah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p270" data-pid="270"><a href="1001061110-split11.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 11:11</span></a> Or “every soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p271" data-pid="271"><a href="1001061110-split11.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 11:16</span></a> Or “its foothills.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
