<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_13.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos50425"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>Now Joshua had grown old and was advanced in years. So Jehovah said to him: “You have grown old and are advanced in years; but much of the land remains to be taken in possession.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is the land remaining: all the regions of the Phi·lisʹtines and all the Geshʹur·ites <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> (from the branch of the Nile<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> that is east of<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> Egypt up to the border of Ekʹron to the north, which used to be considered Caʹnaan·ite territory) including that of the five lords of the Phi·lisʹtines—the Gazʹites, the Ashʹdod·ites, the Ashʹke·lon·ites, the Gitʹtites, and the Ekʹron·ites; that of the Avʹvim <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> to the south; all the land of the Caʹnaan·ites; Me·arʹah, which belongs to the Si·doʹni·ans, as far as Aʹphek, to the border of the Amʹor·ites; <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> the land of the Geʹbal·ites and all of Lebʹa·non toward the east, from Baʹal-gad at the base of Mount Herʹmon to Leʹbo-haʹmath;<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> all the inhabitants of the mountainous region from Lebʹa·non to Misʹre·photh-maʹim; and all the Si·doʹni·ans. I will drive them out<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> before the Israelites. You have only to assign it to Israel as an inheritance, just as I have commanded you. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now you must apportion this land as an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh.”</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos51669"></span><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> With the other half tribe, the Reuʹben·ites and the Gadʹites took their inheritance that Moses gave them on the east side of the Jordan, just as Moses the servant of Jehovah had given them: <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> from A·roʹer, which is on the rim of the Arʹnon Valley,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> and the city that <span id="page342" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="342" data-before-text="342"></span>is in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> of Medʹe·ba as far as Diʹbon; <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and all the cities of King Siʹhon of the Amʹor·ites, who reigned in Heshʹbon, up to the border of the Amʹmon·ites; <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> also Gilʹe·ad and the territory of the Geshʹur·ites and the Ma·acʹa·thites and all Mount Herʹmon and all Baʹshan as far as Salʹe·cah; <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> all the royal realm of Og in Baʹshan, who reigned in Ashʹta·roth and in Edʹre·i. (He was one of the last of the Rephʹa·im.) Moses defeated them and drove them out.<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But the Israelites did not drive out<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> the Geshʹur·ites and the Ma·acʹa·thites, for Geshʹur and Maʹa·cath live in the midst of Israel to this day.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> It was only to the tribe of the Levites that he did not give an inheritance. The offerings made by fire to Jehovah the God of Israel are their inheritance, just as he promised them.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos52819"></span><span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the Reuʹben·ites by their families, <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and their territory was from A·roʹer, which is on the rim of the Arʹnon Valley,<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> and the city in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland by Medʹe·ba; <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Heshʹbon and all its towns on the tableland, Diʹbon, Baʹmoth-baʹal, Beth-baʹal-meʹon, <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Jaʹhaz, Kedʹe·moth, Mephʹa·ath, <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Kir·i·a·thaʹim, Sibʹmah, and Zeʹreth-shaʹhar on the mountain of the valley,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Beth-peʹor, the slopes of Pisʹgah, Beth-jeshʹi·moth, <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> all the cities of the tableland, and all the royal realm of King Siʹhon of the Amʹor·ites, who reigned in Heshʹbon. Moses defeated him and the Midʹi·an·ite chieftains Eʹvi, Reʹkem, Zur, Hur, and Reʹba, vassals<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> of Siʹhon who were dwelling in the land. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Baʹlaam the son of Beʹor, the diviner, was one whom the Israelites killed with the sword along with the rest who were slain. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The boundary of the Reuʹben·ites was the Jordan; and this territory was the inheritance of the Reuʹben·ites by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p103" data-pid="103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos53927"></span><span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Furthermore, Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, the Gadʹites by their families, <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and their territory included Jaʹzer and all the cities of Gilʹe·ad and half of the land of the Amʹmon·ites as far as A·roʹer, which faces Rabʹbah; <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> and from Heshʹbon to Raʹmath-mizʹpeh and Betʹo·nim, and from Ma·ha·naʹim to the border of Deʹbir; <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> and in the valley,<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> Beth-haʹram, Beth-nimʹrah, Sucʹcoth, and Zaʹphon, the rest of the royal realm of King Siʹhon of Heshʹbon, with the Jordan as the border from the lower end of the Sea of Chinʹne·reth<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> on the east side of the Jordan. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the Gadʹites by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos54642"></span><span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Further, Moses gave an inheritance to the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, to half of the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh by their families. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And their territory extended from Ma·ha·naʹim and took in all of Baʹshan, all the royal realm of King Og of Baʹshan, and all the tent villages of Jaʹir in Baʹshan, 60 towns. <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And half of Gilʹe·ad, and Ashʹta·roth and Edʹre·i, the cities of the royal realm of Og in Baʹshan, went to the sons of Maʹchir the son of Ma·nasʹseh, <span id="page343" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="343" data-before-text="343"></span>to half of the sons of Maʹchir by their families.</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> These were the inheritances that Moses gave them on the desert plains of Moʹab beyond the Jordan, east of Jerʹi·cho.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos55293"></span><span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But to the tribe of the Levites, Moses did not give an inheritance. Jehovah the God of Israel is their inheritance, just as he promised them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p277" data-pid="277"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:1</span></a> Or “be conquered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p278" data-pid="278"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:3</span></a> Or “from Shihor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:3</span></a> Lit., “in front of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:5</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:6</span></a> Or “dispossess them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:9</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:9</span></a> Or “plateau.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:12</span></a> Or “dispossessed them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:13</span></a> Or “dispossess.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:16</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:19</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:21</span></a> That is, kings who were subject to Sihon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:27</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061110-split13.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:27</span></a> That is, the lake of Gennesaret, or the Sea of Galilee.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
