<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_3.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos8124"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Je·hoʹram the son of Aʹhab became king over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a in the 18th year of King Je·hoshʹa·phat of Judah, <span id="page527" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="527" data-before-text="527"></span>and he reigned for 12 years. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He kept doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, but not to the extent of his father or his mother, for he removed the sacred pillar of Baʹal that his father had made. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, he clung to the sins that Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat had caused Israel to commit. He did not depart from them.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos8574"></span><span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now Meʹsha the king of Moʹab was a sheep raiser, and he used to pay 100,000 lambs and 100,000 unshorn rams as tribute to the king of Israel. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> As soon as Aʹhab died, the king of Moʹab revolted against the king of Israel. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So King Je·hoʹram went out on that day from Sa·marʹi·a and mustered all Israel. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He also sent a message to King Je·hoshʹa·phat of Judah, saying: “The king of Moʹab has revolted against me. Will you go with me to war against Moʹab?” To this he said: “I will go. I am the same as you. My people are the same as your people. My horses are the same as your horses.” <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he asked: “By which way should we go up?” He replied: “By the way of the wilderness of Eʹdom.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The king of Israel then set out with the king of Judah and the king of Eʹdom. After they journeyed roundabout for seven days, there was no water for the camp and for the domestic animals that were following behind them. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The king of Israel said: “How terrible! Jehovah has called these three kings, only to give them into the hand of Moʹab!” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> At that Je·hoshʹa·phat said: “Is there no prophet of Jehovah here through whom we may inquire of Jehovah?” So one of the servants of the king of Israel answered: “There is E·liʹsha the son of Shaʹphat, who used to pour out water on the hands of E·liʹjah.”<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Je·hoshʹa·phat said: “The word of Jehovah is with him.” So the king of Israel and Je·hoshʹa·phat and the king of Eʹdom went down to him.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> E·liʹsha said to the king of Israel: “What do I have to do with you?<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother.” But the king of Israel said to him: “No, for it is Jehovah who has called these three kings to give them into the hand of Moʹab.” <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> To this E·liʹsha said: “As surely as Jehovah of armies whom I serve<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> is living, if I did not have regard for King Je·hoshʹa·phat of Judah, I would not look at you or take notice of you. <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now bring me a harpist.”<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> As soon as the harpist started playing, the hand of Jehovah came on him. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He said, “This is what Jehovah says: ‘Dig trench after trench in this valley,<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> for this is what Jehovah says: “You will not see wind, and you will not see rain; yet this valley<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> will be filled with water, and you will drink from it, you, your livestock, and your other animals.”’ <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But this is a trivial thing in the eyes of Jehovah, for he will also give Moʹab into your hand. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You must strike down every fortified city and every choice city, you should cut down every good tree, you should stop up all the springs of water, and you should ruin every good plot of land with stones.”</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And in the morning, at the time of the morning grain offering, water was suddenly coming from the direction of Eʹdom, and the land became filled with the water.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> All the Moʹab·ites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, so they <span id="page528" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="528" data-before-text="528"></span>called together all the men who could bear arms,<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> and they stationed themselves at the border. <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When they got up early in the morning, the sun was shining on the water, and to the Moʹab·ites on the opposite side, the water looked red like blood. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> They said: “This is blood! The kings have surely slaughtered one another with the sword. So, then, to the spoil, O Moʹab!” <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> When they came into the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and began striking down the Moʹab·ites, who fled from them. They advanced into Moʹab, striking the Moʹab·ites down as they went. <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> They tore down the cities, and each man threw a stone into every good plot of land, filling it with stones; they stopped up every spring of water, and they cut down every good tree. Finally only the stone walls of Kir-harʹe·seth remained standing, and the slingers surrounded it and struck it down.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos12392"></span><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When the king of Moʹab saw that the battle was lost, he took with him 700 men armed with swords to break through to the king of Eʹdom; but they were not able to. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So he took his firstborn son who was going to reign in his place and offered him up as a burnt sacrifice on the wall. And there came to be great indignation against Israel, so they withdrew from against him and returned to their land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:11</span></a> Or “who was Elijah’s servant.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:13</span></a> Lit., “What to me and to you?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:14</span></a> Lit., “before whom I stand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:15</span></a> Or “musician.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:16</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:17</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061116-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 3:21</span></a> Or “all who girded on a belt.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
