<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_13.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="pos34551"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>And it<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> stood still on the sand of the sea.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb">And I saw a wild beast ascending out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, and on its horns ten diadems,<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> but on its heads blasphemous names. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Now the wild beast that I saw was like a leopard, but its feet were like those of a bear, and its mouth was like a lion’s mouth. And the dragon gave to the beast its power and its throne and great authority.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I saw that one of its heads seemed to have been fatally wounded, but its mortal wound had been healed, and all the earth followed the wild beast with admiration. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And they worshipped the dragon because it gave the authority to the wild beast, and they worshipped the wild beast with the words: “Who is like the wild beast, and who can do battle with it?” <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> It was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and it was given authority to act for 42 months. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And it opened its mouth in blasphemies against God to blaspheme his name and his dwelling place, even those residing in heaven. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> It was permitted to wage war with the holy ones and conquer them, and it was given authority over every tribe and people and tongue<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> and nation. <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And all those who dwell on the earth will worship it. From the founding of the world, not one of their names has been written in the scroll of life of the Lamb who was slaughtered.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> If anyone has an ear, let him hear. <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> If anyone is meant for captivity, he will go into captivity. If anyone will kill with the sword,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> he must be killed with the sword. This is where it calls for endurance and faith on the part of the holy ones.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="pos36173"></span><span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then I saw another wild beast ascending out of the earth, and it had two horns like a lamb, but it began speaking like a dragon. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> It exercises all the authority of the first wild beast in its sight. And it makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first wild beast, whose mortal <span id="page1652" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1652" data-before-text="1652"></span>wound was healed. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And it performs great signs, even making fire come down out of heaven to the earth in the sight of mankind.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="pos36609"></span><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> It misleads those who dwell on the earth, because of the signs that it was permitted to perform in the sight of the wild beast, while it tells those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the wild beast that had the sword-stroke and yet revived. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And it was permitted to give breath<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> to the image of the wild beast, so that the image of the wild beast should both speak and cause to be killed all those who refuse to worship the image of the wild beast.</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="pos37082"></span><span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> It puts under compulsion all people—the small and the great, the rich and the poor, the free and the slaves—that these should be marked on their right hand or on their forehead, <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> and that nobody can buy or sell except a person having the mark, the name of the wild beast or the number of its name. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> This is where it calls for wisdom: Let the one who has insight calculate the number of the wild beast, for it is a man’s number,<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> and its number is 666.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p214" data-pid="214"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:1</span></a> That is, the dragon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p215" data-pid="215"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:1</span></a> Or “royal headbands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p216" data-pid="216"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:7</span></a> Or “language.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p217" data-pid="217"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:10</span></a> Or possibly, “If anyone is to be killed with the sword.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p218" data-pid="218"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:15</span></a> Or “spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p219" data-pid="219"><a href="1001061170-split13.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 13:18</span></a> Or “a human number.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
