<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_21.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="pos87284"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>When they got close to Jerusalem and arrived at Bethʹpha·ge on the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> saying to them: “Go into the village that is within sight, and you will at once find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> If someone says anything to you, you must say, ‘The Lord needs them.’ At that he will immediately send them.”</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> This actually took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet, who said: <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Tell the daughter of Zion: ‘Look! Your king is coming to you, mild-tempered and mounted on a donkey, yes, on a colt, the offspring of a beast of burden.’”</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So the disciples went and did just as Jesus had instructed them. <span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They brought the donkey and its colt, and they put their outer garments on them, and he sat on them. <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Most of the crowd spread their outer garments on the road, while others were cutting down branches from the trees and spreading them on the road. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Moreover, the crowds going ahead of him and those following him kept <span id="page1334" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1334" data-before-text="1334"></span>shouting: “Save, we pray, the Son of David! Blessed is the one who comes in Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> name! Save him, we pray, in the heights above!”</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was in an uproar, saying: “Who is this?” <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The crowds kept saying: “This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazʹa·reth of Galʹi·lee!”</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos88651"></span><span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jesus entered the temple and threw out all those selling and buying in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And he said to them: “It is written, ‘My house will be called a house of prayer,’ but you are making it a cave of robbers.” <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Also, blind and lame people came to him in the temple, and he cured them.</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When the chief priests and the scribes saw the marvelous things he did and the boys who were shouting in the temple, “Save, we pray, the Son of David!” they became indignant <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and said to him: “Do you hear what these are saying?” Jesus said to them: “Yes. Did you never read this, ‘Out of the mouth of children and infants, you have brought forth praise’?” <span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And leaving them behind, he went out of the city to Bethʹa·ny and spent the night there.</p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="pos89516"></span><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> While returning to the city early in the morning, he felt hungry. <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He caught sight of a fig tree by the road and went to it, but he found nothing on it except leaves, and he said to it: “Let no fruit come from you ever again.” And the fig tree withered instantly. <span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When the disciples saw this, they were amazed and said: “How is it that the fig tree withered instantly?” <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> In answer Jesus said to them: “Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only will you do what I did to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be lifted up and thrown into the sea,’ it will happen. <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And all the things you ask in prayer, having faith, you will receive.”</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="pos90223"></span><span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After he went into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him while he was teaching and said: “By what authority do you do these things? And who gave you this authority?” <span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said to them: “I will also ask you one thing. If you tell me, then I will also tell you by what authority I do these things: <span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The baptism by John, from what source was it? From heaven or from men?”<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> But they began to reason among themselves, saying: “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say to us, ‘Why, then, did you not believe him?’ <span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But if we say, ‘From men,’ we have the crowd to fear, for they all regard John as a prophet.” <span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So they answered Jesus: “We do not know.” He, in turn, said to them: “Neither am I telling you by what authority I do these things.</p>
<p id="p165" data-pid="165" class="p165 sb"><span id="pos91036"></span><span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “What do you think? A man had two children. Going up to the first, he said, ‘Child, go work today in the vineyard.’ <span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In answer this one said, ‘I will not,’ but afterward, he felt regret and went out. <span id="chapter21_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Approaching the second, he said the same. This one replied, ‘I will, Sir,’ but did not go out. <span id="chapter21_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said: “The first.” Jesus said to them: “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going ahead of you into the Kingdom of God. <span id="chapter21_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For John came <span id="page1335" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1335" data-before-text="1335"></span>to you in a way of righteousness, but you did not believe him. However, the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him, and even when you saw this, you did not feel regret afterward so as to believe him.</p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="pos91794"></span><span id="chapter21_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Hear another illustration: There was a man, a landowner, who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a winepress in it and erected a tower; then he leased it to cultivators and traveled abroad. <span id="chapter21_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> When the fruit season came around, he sent his slaves to the cultivators to collect his fruit. <span id="chapter21_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> However, the cultivators took his slaves, and they beat one up, another they killed, another they stoned. <span id="chapter21_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Again he sent other slaves, more than the first group, but they did the same to these. <span id="chapter21_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Lastly he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’ <span id="chapter21_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> On seeing the son, the cultivators said among themselves, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and get his inheritance!’ <span id="chapter21_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> So they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. <span id="chapter21_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those cultivators?” <span id="chapter21_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> They said to him: “Because they are evil, he will bring a terrible<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> destruction on them and will lease the vineyard to other cultivators, who will give him the fruits when they become due.”</p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="pos92897"></span><span id="chapter21_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “Did you never read in the Scriptures, ‘The stone that the builders rejected, this has become the chief cornerstone.<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> This has come from Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> and it is marvelous in our eyes’? <span id="chapter21_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> This is why I say to you, the Kingdom of God will be taken from you and be given to a nation producing its fruits. <span id="chapter21_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Also, the person falling on this stone will be shattered. As for anyone on whom it falls, it will crush him.”</p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his illustrations, they knew that he was speaking about them. <span id="chapter21_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Although they wanted to seize<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> him, they feared the crowds, because these regarded him as a prophet.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p378" data-pid="378"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p379" data-pid="379"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:25</span></a> Or “of human origin?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:41</span></a> Or “an evil.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:42</span></a> Lit., “the head of the corner.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:42</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061144-split21.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 21:46</span></a> Or “arrest.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
