<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Esther 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061121"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Esther</a>  <a href="biblechapternav17.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav17_6.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos17133"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>That night the king could not sleep.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> So he said to bring the book of the historical records of the times, and it was read to the king. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> There it was found written what Morʹde·cai had reported concerning Big·thaʹna and Teʹresh, two court officials of the king, doorkeepers, who had plotted to do away with<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> King A·has·u·eʹrus. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The king asked: “What honor and recognition has been given to Morʹde·cai for this?” To this the king’s personal attendants said: “Nothing has been done for him.”</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Later the king said: “Who is in the courtyard?” Now Haʹman had come into the outer courtyard of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> to speak to the king about having Morʹde·cai hanged on the stake that he had prepared for him. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The king’s attendants said to him: “It is Haʹman standing in the courtyard.” So the king said: “Have him come in.”</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When Haʹman came in, the king said to him: “What should be done for the man whom the king wishes to honor?” Haʹman <span id="page694" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="694" data-before-text="694"></span>said in his heart: “Whom would the king wish to honor more than me?” <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So Haʹman said to the king: “For the man whom the king wishes to honor, <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> let them bring royal attire that the king wears and a horse on which the king rides, with the royal headdress on its head. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then let the attire and the horse be put into the charge of one of the king’s noble princes, and they should clothe the man whom the king wishes to honor and have him ride on the horse in the public square of the city. They should call out before him: ‘This is what is done for the man whom the king wishes to honor!’” <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At once the king said to Haʹman: “Quick! Take the attire and the horse, and do what you just said for Morʹde·cai the Jew who is sitting in the king’s gate. Do not leave out anything that you have said.”</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So Haʹman took the attire and the horse, and he clothed Morʹde·cai and made him ride in the public square of the city and called out before him: “This is what is done for the man whom the king wishes to honor!” <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Afterward Morʹde·cai returned to the king’s gate, but Haʹman hurried to his house, mourning with his head covered. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When Haʹman related to his wife Zeʹresh and to all his friends everything that had happened to him, his wise men and his wife Zeʹresh said to him: “If Morʹde·cai, before whom you have started to fall, is of Jewish descent,<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> you will not prevail against him; you will surely fall before him.”</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> While they were still speaking with him, the king’s court officials arrived and quickly took Haʹman to the banquet that Esther had made.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p126" data-pid="126"><a href="1001061121-split6.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:1</span></a> Lit., “the king’s sleep fled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p127" data-pid="127"><a href="1001061121-split6.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:2</span></a> Lit., “to lay hand on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p128" data-pid="128"><a href="1001061121-split6.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:4</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p129" data-pid="129"><a href="1001061121-split6.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:13</span></a> Lit., “from the seed of the Jews.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
