<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_10.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos28939"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>As I was watching, I saw above the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubs something like a sapphire stone appearing above them, and its appearance resembled a throne. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he said to the man clothed in linen: “Enter between the wheelwork, under the cherubs, and fill both your hands with burning coals from between the cherubs and toss them over the city.” So he entered as I watched.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The cherubs were standing to the right of the house when the man entered, and the cloud filled the inner courtyard. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And the glory of Jehovah rose up from the cherubs to the threshold of the doorway of the house, and the house gradually became filled with the cloud, <span id="page1143" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1143" data-before-text="1143"></span>and the courtyard was full of the brightness of the glory of Jehovah. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the sound of the wings of the cherubs could be heard in the outer courtyard, like the sound of God Almighty when he speaks.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then he commanded the man clothed in linen: “Take fire from between the wheelwork, from between the cherubs,” and he entered and stood beside the wheel. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then one of the cherubs stretched his hand out toward the fire that was between the cherubs. He took some and put it into both hands of the one clothed in linen, who now took it and went out. <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The cherubs had what looked like the form of human hands under their wings.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos30261"></span><span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As I was watching, I saw four wheels beside the cherubs, one wheel beside each cherub, and the wheels appeared to glow like chrysʹo·lite stone. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As for their appearance, the four of them were alike, looking as though a wheel were within a wheel. <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning, because they would go to the place where the head would face without turning. <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Their entire bodies, their backs, their hands, their wings, and the wheels, the wheels of all four of them, were full of eyes all around. <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> As regards the wheels, I heard a voice that called to them, “Wheelwork!”</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Each one<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> had four faces. The first face was the face of the cherub, the second face was the face of a man,<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> the third was the face of a lion, and the fourth was the face of an eagle.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And the cherubs would rise—they were the same living creatures<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> that I had seen at the river Cheʹbar— <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and when the cherubs moved, the wheels would move alongside them; and when the cherubs lifted up their wings to be high above the earth, the wheels would not turn or move from their side. <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When these stood still, they would stand still; and when these rose, they would rise with them, for the spirit operating on the living creatures<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> was in them.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="pos31570"></span><span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then the glory of Jehovah departed from over the threshold of the doorway of the house and stood still over the cherubs. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The cherubs now lifted up their wings and rose from the earth as I watched. The wheels were also alongside them when they departed. They stopped at the entrance of the eastern gate of the house of Jehovah, and the glory of the God of Israel was above them.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> These were the living creatures<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> that I had seen under the God of Israel at the river Cheʹbar, so I came to know that they were cherubs. <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> All four had four faces, four wings, and what appeared to be human hands under their wings. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the appearances of their faces were like the faces I had seen by the river Cheʹbar. They would each go straight forward.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p650" data-pid="650"><a href="1001061130-split10.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 10:14</span></a> That is, each of the cherubs.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p651" data-pid="651"><a href="1001061130-split10.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 10:14</span></a> Or “human.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p652" data-pid="652"><a href="1001061130-split10.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 10:15</span></a> Lit., “it was the living creature.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p653" data-pid="653"><a href="1001061130-split10.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 10:17</span></a> Lit., “the spirit of the living creature.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p654" data-pid="654"><a href="1001061130-split10.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 10:20</span></a> Lit., “This is the living creature.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
