<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_13.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos62978"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>As he was going out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him: “Teacher, see! what wonderful stones and buildings!” <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> However, Jesus said to him: “Do you see these great buildings? By no means will a stone be left here upon a stone and not be thrown down.”</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives with the temple in view, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately: <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are to come to a conclusion?” <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So Jesus began to tell them: “Look out that nobody misleads you. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Many will come on the basis of my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and will mislead many. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Moreover, when you hear of wars and reports of wars, do not be alarmed; these things must take place, but the end is not yet.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos63779"></span><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in one place after another; there will also be food shortages. These are a beginning of pangs of distress.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “As for you, look out for yourselves. People will hand you over to local courts, and you will be beaten in synagogues and be put on the stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them. <span id="pos64197"></span><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Also, in all the nations, the good news has to be preached first. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And when they are taking you to hand you over, do not be anxious beforehand about what to say; but whatever is given you in that hour, say this, for you are not the ones speaking, <span id="page1370" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1370" data-before-text="1370"></span>but the holy spirit is. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Furthermore, brother will deliver brother over to death, and a father a child, and children will rise up against parents and have them put to death. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you will be hated by all people on account of my name. But the one who has endured<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> to the end will be saved.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “However, when you catch sight of the disgusting thing that causes desolation standing where it should not be (let the reader use discernment), then let those in Ju·deʹa begin fleeing to the mountains. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Let the man on the housetop not come down nor go inside to take anything out of his house; <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and let the man in the field not return to the things behind to pick up his outer garment. <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Woe to the pregnant women and those nursing a baby in those days! <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Keep praying that it may not occur in wintertime; <span id="pos65304"></span><span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> for those days will be days of a tribulation such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation that God created until that time, and will not occur again. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> In fact, unless Jehovah<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> had cut short the days, no flesh would be saved. But on account of the chosen ones whom he has chosen, he has cut short the days.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Then, too, if anyone says to you, ‘See! Here is the Christ,’ or, ‘See! There he is,’ do not believe it. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will perform signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, the chosen ones. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You, then, watch out. I have told you all things beforehand.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken. <span id="pos66182"></span><span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And then they will see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And then he will send out the angels and will gather his chosen ones together from the four winds, from earth’s extremity to heaven’s extremity.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos66431"></span><span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “Now learn this illustration from the fig tree: Just as soon as its young branch grows tender and sprouts its leaves, you know that summer is near. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Likewise also you, when you see these things happening, know that he is near at the doors. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Truly I say to you that this generation will by no means pass away until all these things happen. <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos66874"></span><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “Concerning that day or the hour nobody knows, neither the angels in heaven nor the Son, but the Father. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Keep looking, keep awake, for you do not know when the appointed time is. <span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> It is like a man traveling abroad who left his house and gave the authority to his slaves, to each one his work, and commanded the doorkeeper to keep on the watch. <span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Keep on the watch, therefore, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, whether late in the day or at midnight or before dawn<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> or early in the morning, <span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> in order that when he comes suddenly, he does not find you sleeping. <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But what I say to you, I say to all: Keep on the watch.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p204" data-pid="204"><a href="1001061145-split13.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 13:13</span></a> Or “who endures.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p205" data-pid="205"><a href="1001061145-split13.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 13:20</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p206" data-pid="206"><a href="1001061145-split13.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 13:35</span></a> Lit., “when the rooster crows.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
