<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_16.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos94723"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>Then he also said to the disciples: “A rich man had a steward<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> who was accused of handling his goods wastefully. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So he called him and said, ‘What is this I hear about you? Hand in the account of your stewardship, for you can no longer manage the house.’ <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then the steward said to himself, ‘What am I to do, seeing that my master is taking the stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Ah! I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from the stewardship, people will welcome me into their homes.’ <span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And calling to him each one of his master’s debtors, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’ <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He replied, ‘A hundred measures<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> of olive oil.’ He said to him, ‘Take back your written agreement and sit down and quickly write 50.’ <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Next, he said to another one, ‘Now you, how much do you owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred large measures<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take back your written agreement and write 80.’ <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And his master commended the steward, though unrighteous, because he acted with practical wisdom;<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> for the sons of this system of things<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> are wiser in a practical way toward their own generation than the sons of the light are.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Also, I say to you: Make friends for yourselves by means of the unrighteous riches, so that when such fail, they may receive you into the everlasting dwelling places. <span id="pos96114"></span><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The person faithful in what is least is faithful also in much, and the person unrighteous in what is least is unrighteous also in much. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Therefore, if you have not proved yourselves faithful in connection with the unrighteous riches, who will entrust you with what is true? <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And if you have not proved yourselves faithful in connection with what belongs to another, who will give you something for yourselves? <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> No servant can be a slave to two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other. You cannot be slaves to God and to Riches.”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos96741"></span><span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now the Pharisees, who were money lovers, were listening to all these things, and they <span id="page1409" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1409" data-before-text="1409"></span>began to sneer at him. <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So he said to them: “You are those who declare yourselves righteous before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is considered exalted by men is a disgusting thing in God’s sight.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “The Law and the Prophets were until John. From then on, the Kingdom of God is being declared as good news, and every sort of person is pressing forward toward it. <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Indeed, it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of a letter of the Law to go unfulfilled.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and whoever marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.</p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos97503"></span><span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “There was a rich man who used to dress in purple and linen, enjoying himself day after day with magnificence. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But a beggar named Lazʹa·rus used to be put at his gate, covered with ulcers <span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and desiring to be filled with the things dropping from the table of the rich man. Yes, even the dogs would come and lick his ulcers. <span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now in the course of time, the beggar died and was carried off by the angels to Abraham’s side.<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a></p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb">“Also, the rich man died and was buried. <span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And in the Grave<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and he saw Abraham from afar and Lazʹa·rus by his side.<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So he called and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazʹa·rus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this blazing fire.’ <span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that you had your fill of good things in your lifetime, but Lazʹa·rus for his part received bad things. Now, however, he is being comforted here, but you are in anguish. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And besides all these things, a great chasm has been fixed between us and you, so that those who want to go over from here to you cannot, neither may people cross over from there to us.’ <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then he said, ‘That being so, I ask you, father, to send him to the house of my father, <span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> for I have five brothers, in order that he may give them a thorough witness so that they will not also come into this place of torment.’ <span id="chapter16_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But Abraham said, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; let them listen to these.’ <span id="chapter16_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then he said, ‘No, indeed, father Abraham, but if someone from the dead goes to them, they will repent.’ <span id="chapter16_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But he said to him, ‘If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:1</span></a> Or “house manager.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:6</span></a> Or “bath measures.” A bath equaled 22 L (5.81 gal). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:7</span></a> Or “A hundred cor measures.” A cor equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:8</span></a> Or “acted shrewdly; acted discreetly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:8</span></a> Or “this age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:22</span></a> Lit., “to the bosom of Abraham.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:23</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p id="p392" data-pid="392"><a href="1001061146-split16.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 16:23</span></a> Lit., “in his bosom.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
