<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">28</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_28.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p233" data-pid="233" class="p233 sb"><span id="pos105086"></span><span id="chapter28"></span><span id="chapter28_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>28</strong> </span>So Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and commanded him, saying: “You must not take a wife from the daughters of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter28_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Go away to Padʹdan-aʹram to the house of Be·thuʹel, your mother’s father, and from there take for yourself a wife from the daughters of Laʹban, your mother’s brother. <span id="chapter28_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> God Almighty will bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, and you will certainly become a congregation of peoples. <span id="chapter28_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And he will give to you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your offspring<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> with you, so that you may take possession of the land where you have been living as a foreigner, which God has given to Abraham.”</p>
<p id="p234" data-pid="234" class="p234 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So Isaac sent Jacob away, and he departed for Padʹdan-aʹram, to Laʹban the son of Be·thuʹel the A·ra·maeʹan, the brother of Re·bekʹah, the mother of Jacob and Eʹsau.</p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Eʹsau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him away to Padʹdan-aʹram to take a wife from there and that when he blessed him, he commanded him, “Do not take a wife from the daughters of Caʹnaan,” <span id="chapter28_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother and departed for Padʹdan-aʹram. <span id="chapter28_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Eʹsau then realized that the daughters of Caʹnaan were displeasing to his father Isaac, <span id="chapter28_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> so Eʹsau went to Ishʹma·el and took as wife Maʹha·lath the daughter of Abraham’s son Ishʹma·el, the sister of Ne·baʹioth, in addition to the other wives he already had.</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sb"><span id="pos106463"></span><span id="chapter28_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jacob departed from Beʹer-sheʹba and kept going toward Haʹran. <span id="chapter28_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> In time he came to a place and prepared to spend the night there because the sun had set. So he took one of the stones of that place and set it to rest his head on and lay down there. <span id="chapter28_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then he had a dream, and look! there was a stairway<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> set on the earth, and its top reached up to the heavens; and there were God’s angels <span id="page78" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="78" data-before-text="78"></span>ascending and descending on it. <span id="pos106907"></span><span id="chapter28_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And look! there was Jehovah stationed above it, and he said:</p>
<p id="p237" data-pid="237" class="p237 sb">“I am Jehovah the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you are lying, to you I am going to give it and to your offspring.<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> <span id="chapter28_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And your offspring<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> will certainly become like the dust particles of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and by means of you and by means of your offspring<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> all the families of the ground will certainly be blessed.<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> <span id="chapter28_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I am with you, and I will safeguard you wherever you go, and I will return you to this land. I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.”</p>
<p id="p238" data-pid="238" class="p238 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said: “Truly Jehovah is in this place, and I did not know it.” <span id="chapter28_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And he grew fearful and added: “How awe-inspiring this place is! This can only be the house of God, and this is the gate of the heavens.” <span id="chapter28_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Jacob got up early in the morning and took the stone on which he had rested his head and set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it. <span id="chapter28_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So he named that place Bethʹel,<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> but previously the city’s name was Luz.</p>
<p id="p239" data-pid="239" class="p239 sb"><span id="chapter28_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Jacob then made a vow, saying: “If God will continue with me and will protect me on my journey and will give me bread to eat and garments to wear <span id="chapter28_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> and I return in peace to the house of my father, then Jehovah will certainly have proved to be my God. <span id="chapter28_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And this stone that I have set up as a pillar will become a house of God, and without fail I will give you a tenth of everything you give to me.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p672" data-pid="672"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p673" data-pid="673"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:12</span></a> Or “ladder.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p674" data-pid="674"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:13</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p675" data-pid="675"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:14</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p676" data-pid="676"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:14</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p677" data-pid="677"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:14</span></a> Or “will obtain a blessing for themselves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p678" data-pid="678"><a href="1001061105-split28.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 28:19</span></a> Meaning “House of God.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
