<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 30</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">30</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_30.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="pos127883"></span><span id="chapter30"></span><span id="chapter30_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>30</strong> </span>When David and his men came to Zikʹlag on the third day, the A·malʹek·ites had made a raid on the south<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> and on Zikʹlag, and they had attacked Zikʹlag and burned it with fire. <span id="chapter30_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> They had taken captive the women and all who were in it, from the smallest to the greatest. They had not killed anyone, but they had carried them off and gone on their way. <span id="chapter30_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When David and his men came to the city, they found it burned down, and their wives and their sons and their daughters had been carried off captive. <span id="chapter30_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So David and the men with him began <span id="page439" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="439" data-before-text="439"></span>weeping loudly until they had no strength left to weep. <span id="chapter30_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> David’s two wives had also been carried off captive, A·hinʹo·am of Jezʹre·el and Abʹi·gail the widow of Naʹbal the Carʹmel·ite. <span id="pos128626"></span><span id="chapter30_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> David was very distressed, because the men were talking of stoning him, for all the men<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> had become very bitter over the loss of their sons and daughters. But David strengthened himself by Jehovah his God.</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="pos128837"></span><span id="chapter30_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> David then said to A·biʹa·thar the priest, the son of A·himʹe·lech: “Please bring the ephʹod here.” So A·biʹa·thar brought the ephʹod to David. <span id="chapter30_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> David inquired of Jehovah: “Should I chase after this marauder band? Will I overtake them?” At this He said to him: “Go in pursuit, for you will certainly overtake them, and you will make the rescue.”</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> David immediately set out with the 600 men who were with him, and they went on as far as the Wadi<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> Beʹsor, where some of the men stayed behind. <span id="chapter30_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> David kept up the chase with 400 men, but the 200 men who were too tired to cross the Wadi Beʹsor stayed behind.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They found an Egyptian man in the field and took him to David. They gave him food to eat and water to drink, <span id="chapter30_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> as well as a slice of a cake of pressed figs and two cakes of raisins. After he ate, he regained his strength,<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> for he had not eaten any food or drunk any water for three days and three nights. <span id="chapter30_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David now asked him: “To whom do you belong, and where are you from?” to which he said: “I am an Egyptian attendant, a slave of an A·malʹek·ite man, but my master left me because I got sick three days ago. <span id="chapter30_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> We made a raid on the south<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> of the Cherʹe·thites and on the territory of Judah and on the south<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> of Caʹleb, and Zikʹlag we burned with fire.” <span id="chapter30_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At this David said to him: “Will you lead me down to this marauder band?” He replied: “If you swear to me by God that you will not put me to death and that you will not hand me over to my master, I will lead you down to this marauder band.”</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So he led him down to where they were spread out all over the land, eating and drinking and celebrating because of all the great spoil that they had taken from the land of the Phi·lisʹtines and the land of Judah. <span id="chapter30_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then David struck them down from the morning darkness until the following evening; not a man escaped except 400 men who fled on camels. <span id="pos130754"></span><span id="chapter30_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> David recovered all that the A·malʹek·ites had taken, and David rescued his two wives. <span id="chapter30_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Nothing of theirs was missing, from the smallest to the greatest. They recovered their sons and daughters and the spoil; David recovered everything that they had taken. <span id="chapter30_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before their own livestock. They said: “This is David’s spoil.”</p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then David came to the 200 men who had been too tired to go along with David and who had stayed behind by the Wadi Beʹsor, and they came out to meet David and the people with him. When David came near to the men, he asked them how they were. <span id="chapter30_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> However, every bad and worthless man among those who had gone with David said: “Since they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we <span id="page440" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="440" data-before-text="440"></span>recovered except that each one may take his wife and his sons and go away.” <span id="pos131652"></span><span id="chapter30_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But David said: “You must not do this, my brothers, with what Jehovah has given us. He protected us and gave into our hand the marauder band that came against us. <span id="chapter30_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Who would agree with you on this? The share of the one who went down into the battle will be the same as the share of the one who sat by the baggage. All will have a share together.” <span id="chapter30_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And from that day forward, he kept it set as a regulation and a rule for Israel down to this day.</p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="chapter30_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> When David returned to Zikʹlag, he sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah who were his friends, saying: “Here is a gift<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> for you from the spoil of Jehovah’s enemies.” <span id="chapter30_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> He sent it to those who were in Bethʹel, to those in Raʹmoth of the Negʹeb,<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> to those in Jatʹtir, <span id="chapter30_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> to those in A·roʹer, to those in Siphʹmoth, to those in Esh·te·moʹa, <span id="chapter30_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> to those in Raʹcal, to those in the cities of the Je·rahʹme·el·ites, to those in the cities of the Kenʹites, <span id="chapter30_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> to those in Horʹmah, to those in Borʹa·shan, to those in Aʹthach, <span id="chapter30_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> to those in Hebʹron, and to all the places that David and his men had frequented.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p id="p414" data-pid="414"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:1</span></a> Or “the Negeb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p id="p415" data-pid="415"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:6</span></a> Or “for the souls of all the people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p id="p416" data-pid="416"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:9</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p id="p417" data-pid="417"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:12</span></a> Lit., “his spirit returned to him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p id="p418" data-pid="418"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:14</span></a> Or “the Negeb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:14</span></a> Or “the Negeb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:26</span></a> Lit., “blessing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061113-split30.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 30:27</span></a> Or “the south.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
