<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_5.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos25220"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>Moses then summoned all Israel and said to them: “Hear, O Israel, the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am announcing to you today, and you must learn them and carefully observe them. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Jehovah our God made a covenant with us in Horʹeb. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> It was not with our forefathers that Jehovah made this covenant, but with us, all of us alive here today. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke face-to-face with you in the mountain, out of the fire. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> I was standing between Jehovah and you at that time to convey to you the word of Jehovah, for you were afraid because of the fire and did not go up the mountain. He said:</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos25835"></span><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “‘I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You must never have any other gods besides me.<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a></p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘You must not make for yourself a carved image or a form<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> like anything that is in the heavens above or on the earth below or in the waters under the earth. <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> You must not bow down to them nor be led to serve them, for I, Jehovah your God, am a God who requires exclusive devotion, bringing punishment for the error of fathers upon sons, upon the third generation and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me, <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> but showing loyal love<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> to the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘You must not take up the name of Jehovah your God in a worthless way, for Jehovah will not leave anyone unpunished who takes up his name in a worthless way.</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘Observe the Sabbath day to keep it sacred, just as Jehovah your God commanded you. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You are to labor and do all your work in six days, <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> but the seventh day is a sabbath to Jehovah your God. You must not do any work, neither you nor your son nor your daughter nor your slave man nor your slave girl nor your bull nor your donkey nor any of your domestic animals nor your foreign resident who is inside your cities,<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> in order that your slave man and your slave girl may rest the same as you. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Remember that you became a slave in the land of Egypt and that Jehovah your God brought you out of there <span id="page283" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="283" data-before-text="283"></span>with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. That is why Jehovah your God commanded you to observe the Sabbath day.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘Honor your father and your mother, just as Jehovah your God has commanded you, so that you may live a long time and you may prosper<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘You must not murder.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘Neither must you commit adultery.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘Neither must you steal.</p>
<p id="p44" data-pid="44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “‘Neither must you testify to a falsehood against your fellow man.</p>
<p id="p45" data-pid="45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘Neither must you desire your fellow man’s wife. Neither must you selfishly desire your fellow man’s house nor his field nor his slave man nor his slave girl nor his bull nor his donkey nor anything that belongs to your fellow man.’</p>
<p id="p46" data-pid="46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “These commandments<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> Jehovah spoke to all your congregation on the mountain, out of the fire, the cloud, and the thick gloom, with a loud voice, and he added nothing further; then he wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me.</p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos28306"></span><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “But as soon as you had heard the voice out of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, all the heads of your tribes and the elders approached me. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then you said, ‘Here Jehovah our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the fire. Today we have seen that God can speak with man and he can keep living. <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now, why should we die? For this great fire may consume us. If we continue hearing the voice of Jehovah our God, we are sure to die. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For who is there of all flesh<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the fire as we did and yet goes on living? <span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> You yourself must go near to hear all that Jehovah our God will say, and you will be the one to tell us all that Jehovah our God says to you, and we will listen and do it.’</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “So Jehovah heard the words you spoke to me, and Jehovah said to me, ‘I have heard the words that this people have spoken to you. All they have said is good. <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> If only they would always have a heart inclined to fear me and to keep all my commandments; then it would go well with them and their sons forever! <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Go say to them: “Return to your tents.” <span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But you should stay here with me, and let me tell you all the commandments, the regulations, and the judicial decisions that you should teach to them and that they are to observe in the land that I am giving them to take possession of.’ <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now you people should be careful to do just as Jehovah your God has commanded you. You must not turn to the right or to the left. <span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> You should walk in all the way that Jehovah your God has commanded you, in order that you may live and prosper and prolong your days in the land that you will take possession of.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p415" data-pid="415"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:7</span></a> Or “in defiance of me.” Lit., “against my face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p416" data-pid="416"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:8</span></a> Or “representation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p417" data-pid="417"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:10</span></a> Or “loving-kindness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p418" data-pid="418"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:14</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:16</span></a> Or “and it may go well with you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:22</span></a> Lit., “words.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061109-split5.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 5:26</span></a> Or “all mankind.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
