<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061127"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Isaiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav23.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav23_19.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p470" data-pid="470" class="p470 sb"><span id="pos54371"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>A pronouncement against Egypt:</p>
<p id="p471" data-pid="471" class="p471 sz">Look! Jehovah is riding on a swift cloud and is coming into Egypt.</p>
<p id="p472" data-pid="472" class="p472 sz">The worthless gods of Egypt will tremble before him,</p><p data-pid="472" class="p472 sz">And the heart of Egypt will melt within it.</p>
<p id="p473" data-pid="473" class="p473 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “I will incite Egyptians against Egyptians,</p><p data-pid="473" class="p473 sz">And they will fight one another,</p><p data-pid="473" class="p473 sz">Each against his brother and his neighbor,</p><p data-pid="473" class="p473 sz">City against city, kingdom against kingdom.</p>
<p id="p474" data-pid="474" class="p474 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And the spirit of Egypt will become bewildered within it,</p><p data-pid="474" class="p474 sz">And I will confuse its plans.</p>
<p id="p475" data-pid="475" class="p475 sz">They will resort to the worthless gods,</p><p data-pid="475" class="p475 sz">To the charmers and to the spirit mediums and to the fortune-tellers.</p>
<p id="p476" data-pid="476" class="p476 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I will hand Egypt over to a hard master,</p><p data-pid="476" class="p476 sz">And a harsh king will rule over them,” declares the true Lord, Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p477" data-pid="477" class="p477 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The water of the sea will be dried up,</p><p data-pid="477" class="p477 sz">And the river will become parched and run dry.</p>
<p id="p478" data-pid="478" class="p478 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And the rivers will stink;</p><p data-pid="478" class="p478 sz">The Nile canals of Egypt will become low and parched.</p>
<p id="p479" data-pid="479" class="p479 sz">The reeds and the rushes will decay.</p>
<p id="p480" data-pid="480" class="p480 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The plants along the Nile River, at the mouth of the Nile,</p><p data-pid="480" class="p480 sz">And all the land sown with seed along the Nile will dry up.</p>
<p id="p481" data-pid="481" class="p481 sz">It will be blown away, and it will be no more.</p>
<p id="p482" data-pid="482" class="p482 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And the fishermen will mourn,</p><p data-pid="482" class="p482 sz">Those casting fishhooks into the Nile will lament,</p><p data-pid="482" class="p482 sz">And those who spread their nets on the water will dwindle.</p>
<p id="p483" data-pid="483" class="p483 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Those who work in combed flax</p><p data-pid="483" class="p483 sz">And those making white fabric on the loom will be put to shame.</p>
<p id="p484" data-pid="484" class="p484 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Her weavers will be crushed;</p><p data-pid="484" class="p484 sz">All the hired workers will grieve.<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a></p>
<p id="p485" data-pid="485" class="p485 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The princes of Zoʹan are foolish.</p>
<p id="p486" data-pid="486" class="p486 sz">The wisest advisers of Pharʹaoh give unreasonable advice.</p>
<p id="p487" data-pid="487" class="p487 sz">How can you say to Pharʹaoh:</p>
<p id="p488" data-pid="488" class="p488 sz">“I am a descendant of wise ones,</p><p data-pid="488" class="p488 sz">A descendant of ancient kings”?</p>
<p id="p489" data-pid="489" class="p489 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Where, then, are your wise men?</p>
<p id="p490" data-pid="490" class="p490 sz">Let them tell you if they know what Jehovah of armies has decided concerning Egypt.</p>
<p id="p491" data-pid="491" class="p491 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The princes of Zoʹan have acted foolishly;</p><p data-pid="491" class="p491 sz">The princes of Noph<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> have been deceived;</p><p data-pid="491" class="p491 sz">The chiefs of her tribes have led Egypt astray.</p>
<p id="p492" data-pid="492" class="p492 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah has poured out on her a spirit of confusion;</p><p data-pid="492" class="p492 sz"><span id="page962" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="962" data-before-text="962"></span>And they have led Egypt astray in whatever she does,</p><p data-pid="492" class="p492 sz">Like a drunk staggering in his vomit.</p>
<p id="p493" data-pid="493" class="p493 sl"><span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And Egypt will not have any work to do,</p><p data-pid="493" class="p493 sz">Whether for the head or the tail, the shoot or the rush.<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a></p>
<p id="p494" data-pid="494" class="p494 sb"><span id="pos56571"></span><span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> In that day Egypt will become like women, trembling and terrified because of the threatening hand that Jehovah of armies raises against it. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the land of Judah will become a cause for terror to Egypt. They will feel dread at the mention of it because of the decision that Jehovah of armies has made against them.</p>
<p id="p495" data-pid="495" class="p495 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt speaking the language of Caʹnaan and swearing loyalty to Jehovah of armies. One city will be called The City of Tearing Down.</p>
<p id="p496" data-pid="496" class="p496 sb"><span id="pos57094"></span><span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In that day there will be an altar to Jehovah in the middle of the land of Egypt and a pillar to Jehovah at its boundary. <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> It will be for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of armies in the land of Egypt; for they will cry out to Jehovah because of the oppressors, and he will send them a savior, a grand one, who will save them. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And Jehovah will become known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know Jehovah in that day, and they will offer sacrifices and gifts and make a vow to Jehovah and pay it. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah will strike Egypt, striking and healing it; and they will return to Jehovah, and he will respond to their entreaties and heal them.</p>
<p id="p497" data-pid="497" class="p497 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> In that day there will be a highway out of Egypt to As·syrʹi·a. Then As·syrʹi·a will come into Egypt, and Egypt into As·syrʹi·a, and Egypt will serve God together with As·syrʹi·a. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In that day Israel will be the third along with Egypt and with As·syrʹi·a, a blessing in the midst of the earth, <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> for Jehovah of armies will have blessed it, saying: “Blessed be my people, Egypt, and the work of my hands, As·syrʹi·a, and my inheritance, Israel.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p2183" data-pid="2183"><a href="1001061127-split19.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 19:10</span></a> Or “be grieved in soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p2184" data-pid="2184"><a href="1001061127-split19.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 19:13</span></a> Or “Memphis.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p2185" data-pid="2185"><a href="1001061127-split19.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 19:15</span></a> Or possibly, “the palm branch or the reed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
