<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_15.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="pos50700"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>We, though, who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those not strong, and not to be pleasing ourselves. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For even the Christ did not please himself, but just as it is written: “The reproaches of those reproaching you have fallen upon me.” <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For all the things that were <span id="page1523" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1523" data-before-text="1523"></span>written beforehand were written for our instruction, so that through our endurance and through the comfort from the Scriptures we might have hope. <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now may the God who supplies endurance and comfort grant you to have among yourselves the same mental attitude that Christ Jesus had, <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> so that unitedly you may with one voice<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So welcome<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> one another, just as the Christ also welcomed you, with glory to God in view. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For I tell you that Christ became a minister of those who are circumcised in behalf of God’s truthfulness, so as to verify the promises He made to their forefathers, <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and that the nations might glorify God for his mercy. Just as it is written: “That is why I will openly acknowledge you among the nations, and to your name I will sing praises.” <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And again he says: “Be glad, you nations, with his people.” <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And again: “Praise Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> all you nations, and let all the peoples praise him.” <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And again Isaiah says: “There will be the root of Jesʹse, the one arising to rule nations; on him nations will rest their hope.” <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> May the God who gives hope fill you with all joy and peace by your trusting in him, so that you may abound<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> in hope with power of holy spirit.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="pos52354"></span><span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now I myself am convinced about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are also full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and that you are able to admonish<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> one another. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> However, I have written to you more outspokenly on some points, so as to give you another reminder, because of the undeserved kindness given to me from God <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for me to be a public servant of Christ Jesus to the nations. I am engaging in the holy work of the good news of God, so that these nations might be an acceptable offering, sanctified with holy spirit.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So I have reason to exult in Christ Jesus over the things pertaining to God. <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For I will not presume to speak about anything except what Christ has done through me in order for the nations to be obedient, by my word and deed, <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> with the power of signs and wonders,<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> with the power of God’s spirit, so that from Jerusalem and in a circuit as far as Il·lyrʹi·cum I have thoroughly preached the good news about the Christ. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> In this way, indeed, I made it my aim not to declare the good news where the name of Christ had already been made known, so as not to build on another man’s foundation; <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> but just as it is written: “Those who received no report about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand.”</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="pos53652"></span><span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> This is also why I was many times hindered from coming to you. <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But now I no longer have untouched territory in these regions, and for many<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> years I have longed to come to you. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Therefore, when I journey to Spain, I hope that I will see you and be accompanied partway there by you after I have first enjoyed your company for a time. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But now I am about to travel to Jerusalem to minister to the holy ones. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For those in Mac·e·doʹni·a and A·chaʹia have been pleased to share their things by a contribution to the poor among the holy ones in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> True, they have been <span id="page1524" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1524" data-before-text="1524"></span>pleased to do so, and indeed they were debtors to them; for if the nations have shared in their spiritual things, they also owe it to minister to them with their material things. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So after I have finished with this and have delivered this contribution<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> securely to them, I will depart by way of you for Spain. <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moreover, I know that when I do come to you, I will come with a full measure of blessing from Christ.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Now I urge you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the spirit, that you exert yourselves with me in prayers to God for me, <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> that I may be rescued from the unbelievers in Ju·deʹa and that my ministry in behalf of Jerusalem may prove to be acceptable to the holy ones, <span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> so that by God’s will I will come to you with joy and be refreshed together with you. <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> May the God who gives peace be with all of you. Amen.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p185" data-pid="185"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:6</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p186" data-pid="186"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:7</span></a> Or “accept.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p187" data-pid="187"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:11</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p188" data-pid="188"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:13</span></a> Or “overflow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p189" data-pid="189"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:14</span></a> Or “instruct.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p190" data-pid="190"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:19</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p191" data-pid="191"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:23</span></a> Or possibly, “some.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p192" data-pid="192"><a href="1001061149-split15.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 15:28</span></a> Lit., “fruit.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
