<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Colossians 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061155"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Colossians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav51.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav51_2.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos4261"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>For I want you to realize how great a struggle I am having in your behalf and in behalf of those at La·o·di·ceʹa and in behalf of all those who have not personally seen me.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is so that their hearts may be comforted and that they may be harmoniously joined together in love and may have all the riches that result from the full assurance of their understanding, in order to gain an accurate knowledge of the sacred secret of God, namely, Christ. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Carefully concealed in him are all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I am saying this so that no one may delude you with persuasive arguments. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Though I am absent in body, I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos5015"></span><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Therefore, just as you have accepted Christ Jesus the Lord, go on walking in union with him, <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> being rooted and built up in him and being stabilized in the faith, just as you were taught, and overflowing with thanksgiving.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Look out that no one takes you captive<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> by means of the philosophy and empty deception according to human tradition, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ; <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> because it is in him that all the fullness of the divine quality dwells bodily. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So you have acquired a fullness by means of him, the one who is the head of all government and authority. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> By your relationship with him, you were also circumcised with a circumcision performed without hands by stripping off the fleshly body, by the circumcision that belongs to the Christ. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For you were buried with him in his baptism, and by your relationship with him you were also raised up together through your faith in the powerful work of God, who raised him up from the dead.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Furthermore, though you were dead in your trespasses and in the uncircumcised state of your flesh, God made you alive together with him. He kindly forgave us all our trespasses <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and erased<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> the handwritten document that consisted of decrees and was in opposition to us. He has taken it out of the way by nailing it to the torture stake.<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He has stripped the governments and the authorities bare and has publicly exhibited them as conquered, leading them in a triumphal procession by means of it.<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a></p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos6561"></span><span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Therefore, do not let anyone judge you about what you eat and drink or about the <span id="page1578" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1578" data-before-text="1578"></span>observance of a festival or of the new moon or of a sabbath. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Those things are a shadow of the things to come, but the reality belongs to the Christ. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Let no man deprive you of the prize who takes delight in a false humility and a form of worship of the angels, “taking his stand on”<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> the things he has seen. He is actually puffed up without proper cause by his fleshly frame of mind, <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and he is not holding fast to the head, to the one through whom the whole body is supplied and harmoniously joined together by means of its joints and ligaments and made to grow with the growth that is from God.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> If you died together with Christ with respect to the elementary things of the world, why do you live as if still part of the world by further subjecting yourselves to the decrees: <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch,” <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> referring to things that all perish with their use, according to the commands and teachings of men? <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Although those things have an appearance of wisdom in a self-imposed form of worship and a false humility, a harsh treatment of the body, they are of no value in combating the satisfying of the flesh.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p32" data-pid="32"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:1</span></a> Lit., “not seen my face in the flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p33" data-pid="33"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:8</span></a> Or “carries you off as his prey.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p34" data-pid="34"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:14</span></a> Or “blotted out.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:14</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:15</span></a> Or possibly, “him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061155-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Col. 2:18</span></a> Quoted from pagan mystery (initiation) rites.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
