<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_11.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos50319"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>“You must love Jehovah your God and always keep your obligation to him and his statutes, his judicial decisions, and his commandments. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You know that today I am addressing you, not your sons who have not known or seen the discipline of Jehovah your God, his greatness, his mighty hand and his outstretched arm. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They did not see his signs and his deeds that he did in Egypt to Pharʹaoh king of Egypt and to all his land; <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> or what he did to the armies of Egypt, to Pharʹaoh’s horses and war chariots, which were overwhelmed by the waters of the Red Sea when they were chasing after you, and Jehovah destroyed them once and for all.<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They did not see what he has done for<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> you in the wilderness until your coming to this place, <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> or what he did to Daʹthan and A·biʹram, the sons of E·liʹab the son of Reuʹben, when the earth opened and swallowed them up, along with their households and their tents and every living thing that followed them, before the eyes of all Israel. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Your own eyes have seen all the great deeds that Jehovah did.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="pos51383"></span><span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “You must keep the whole commandment that I am giving you today, so that you may grow strong and cross over into the land to take possession of it, <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and so that you may live long in the land that Jehovah swore to give to your forefathers and their offspring,<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> a land flowing with milk and honey.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “The land you are going to take possession of is not like the land of Egypt, out of which you came, where you used to sow your seed and irrigate it with your foot,<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> like a garden of vegetables. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But the land you are about to cross into and possess is a land of mountains and valley plains. It drinks the water that rains from the heavens; <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> it is a land that Jehovah your God is caring for. The eyes of Jehovah your God are constantly <span id="page291" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="291" data-before-text="291"></span>upon it, from the beginning of the year to the close of the year.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="pos52212"></span><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “And if you will diligently obey my commandments that I am commanding you today and love Jehovah your God and serve him with all your heart and all your soul,<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will also give rain for your land at its appointed time, autumn rain and spring rain, and you will gather your grain and your new wine and your oil. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And I will provide vegetation in your fields for your livestock, and you will eat and be satisfied. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Be careful not to let your heart be enticed to go astray and worship other gods and bow down to them. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Otherwise, Jehovah’s anger will blaze against you, and he will shut up the heavens so that it will not rain and the ground will not give its produce and you will quickly perish from the good land that Jehovah is giving you.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="pos52988"></span><span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “You must impress these words of mine on your heart and your soul<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> and bind them as a reminder on your hand, and they should be like a headband on your forehead.<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Teach them to your children, speaking about them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> so that you and your sons may live long in the land that Jehovah swore to give to your forefathers, for as long as the heavens are over the earth.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “If you strictly observe this commandment that I am giving you and you carry it out, to love Jehovah your God, to walk in all his ways and to cling to him, <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Jehovah will drive away all these nations from before you, and you will dispossess nations greater and more numerous than you are. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Every place you set your foot will become yours. From the wilderness up to Lebʹa·non, from the River, the river Eu·phraʹtes, to the western sea,<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> your boundary will become. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Nobody will stand up to you. Jehovah your God will spread the dread and the fear of you over the whole land on which you walk, just as he promised you.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="pos54188"></span><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “See, I am putting before you today a blessing and a curse: <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> the blessing if you obey the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you today, <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of Jehovah your God and you turn aside from the way I am commanding you to follow today and you follow gods that you have not known.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “When Jehovah your God brings you into the land you are to possess, you must pronounce<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> the blessing on Mount Gerʹi·zim and the curse on Mount Eʹbal. <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Are they not on the other side of the Jordan toward the west,<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> in the land of the Caʹnaan·ites who live in the Arʹa·bah, opposite Gilʹgal, beside the big trees of Moʹreh? <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> For you are crossing the Jordan to enter and take possession of the land that Jehovah your God is giving you. When you take possession of it and live in it, <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> you must be careful to carry out all the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am putting before you today.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p457" data-pid="457"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:4</span></a> Or “until this day.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p458" data-pid="458"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:5</span></a> Or “to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p459" data-pid="459"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:9</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p460" data-pid="460"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:10</span></a> Or “water it with your foot,” that is, by some form of foot power, whether on a waterwheel or by forming and opening water channels.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p461" data-pid="461"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:13</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p462" data-pid="462"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:18</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p463" data-pid="463"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:18</span></a> Lit., “between your eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p464" data-pid="464"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:24</span></a> That is, the Great Sea, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p465" data-pid="465"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:29</span></a> Or “give.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p466" data-pid="466"><a href="1001061109-split11.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 11:30</span></a> Or “sunset.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
