<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_25.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="pos122770"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>Therefore Festus, after arriving in the province and taking charge, went up three days later to Jerusalem from Caes·a·reʹa. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews gave him information against Paul. So they began to beg Festus <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> as a favor<span id="footnotesource218"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote218">*</a> to send for Paul to come to Jerusalem. But they were planning to ambush Paul and kill him along the road. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, Festus answered that Paul was to be kept in Caes·a·reʹa and that he himself was about to go back there shortly. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “So let those who are in power among you,” he said, “come down with me and accuse him if, indeed, the man has done something wrong.”</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="page1500" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1500" data-before-text="1500"></span><span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So when he had spent not more than eight or ten days among them, he went down to Caes·a·reʹa, and the next day he sat down on the judgment seat and commanded Paul to be brought in. <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When he came in, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing against him many serious charges that they were unable to prove.</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But Paul said in defense: “Neither against the Law of the Jews nor against the temple nor against Caesar have I committed any sin.” <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, said in reply to Paul: “Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem and be judged before me there concerning these things?” <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But Paul said: “I am standing before the judgment seat of Caesar, where I ought to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, of which you are also becoming well-aware. <span id="pos124236"></span><span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If I am really a wrongdoer and have committed anything deserving of death, I do not beg off from dying; but if there is no substance to the accusations these men have made against me, no man has the right to hand me over to them as a favor. I appeal to Caesar!” <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then Festus, after speaking with the assembly of counselors, replied: “To Caesar you have appealed; to Caesar you will go.”</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="pos124637"></span><span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> After some days had passed, A·gripʹpa the king and Bernice arrived in Caes·a·reʹa for a courtesy visit to Festus. <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Since they were spending a number of days there, Festus presented Paul’s case to the king, saying:</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb">“There is a man who was left as a prisoner by Felix, <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and when I was in Jerusalem the chief priests and the elders of the Jews brought information about him, asking for a judgment of condemnation against him. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But I replied to them that it is not Roman procedure to hand any man over as a favor before the accused man meets his accusers face-to-face and gets a chance to speak in his defense concerning the complaint. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So when they arrived here, I did not delay, but the next day I sat down on the judgment seat and commanded the man to be brought in. <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Taking the stand, the accusers did not charge him with any of the wicked things I had expected concerning him. <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> They simply had certain disputes with him concerning their own worship of the deity<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> and concerning a man named Jesus, who was dead but who Paul kept asserting was alive. <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Being at a loss as to how to handle this dispute, I asked if he would like to go to Jerusalem and be judged there concerning these matters. <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But when Paul appealed to be kept in custody for the decision by the August One,<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> I commanded him to be held until I should send him on to Caesar.”</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> A·gripʹpa then said to Festus: “I would like to hear the man myself.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you will hear him.” <span id="pos126159"></span><span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So the next day A·gripʹpa and Bernice came with much pompous show and entered the audience chamber together with military commanders as well as the prominent men in the city; and when Festus gave the command, Paul was brought in. <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And Festus said: “King A·gripʹpa and all you who are present with us, you see this man about whom the whole Jewish populace have petitioned me both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to <span id="page1501" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1501" data-before-text="1501"></span>live any longer. <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But I perceived that he had done nothing deserving of death. So when this man himself appealed to the August One, I decided to send him. <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But I have nothing certain to write about him to my Lord. So I brought him before all of you, and especially before you, King A·gripʹpa, so that after the judicial examination has taken place, I might have something to write. <span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner and not also to indicate the charges against him.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote218"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061148-split25.xhtml#footnotesource218">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 25:3</span></a> Lit., “asking a favor against him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061148-split25.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 25:19</span></a> Or “their own religion.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061148-split25.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 25:21</span></a> A title for the Roman emperor.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
