<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_5.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos18527"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5</strong> </span>Then they came to the other side of the sea into the region of the Gerʹa·senes. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And immediately after Jesus got out of the boat, a man under the power of an unclean spirit met him from among the tombs.<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> His haunt was among the tombs, and up to that time, absolutely no one was able to bind him securely, even with a chain. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He had often been bound with fetters and chains, but he snapped the chains apart and smashed the fetters; and nobody had the strength to subdue him. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And continually, night and day, he was crying out in the tombs and in the mountains and slashing himself with stones. <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But on catching sight of Jesus from a distance, he ran and bowed down to him. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then he cried out with a loud voice: “What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I put you under oath by God not to torment me.” <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For Jesus had been saying to it: “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit.” <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But Jesus asked him: “What is your name?” And he replied: “My name is Legion, because there are many of us.” <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And he kept pleading with Jesus not to send the spirits out of the country.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Now a great herd of swine was feeding there at the mountain. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So the spirits pleaded with him: “Send us into the swine, so that we may enter into them.” <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And he gave them permission. With that the unclean spirits came out and went into the swine, and the herd rushed over the precipice<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> into the sea, about 2,000 of them, <span id="page1356" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1356" data-before-text="1356"></span>and were drowned in the sea. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But their herders fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside, and people came to see what had happened. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who previously had the legion, sitting clothed and in his right mind, and they grew fearful. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Also, those who had seen it related to them how this had happened to the demon-possessed man and the swine. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So they began to plead with Jesus to go away from their region.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now as he was boarding the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed pleaded to go with him. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, he did not let him but said to him: “Go home to your relatives, and report to them all the things Jehovah<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> has done for you and the mercy he has shown you.” <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> This man went away and started to proclaim in the De·capʹo·lis<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> all the things Jesus had done for him, and all the people were amazed.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos20918"></span><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After Jesus had crossed again by boat to the opposite shore, a large crowd gathered together to him, and he was by the sea. <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> One of the presiding officers of the synagogue, named Jaʹi·rus, now came, and on catching sight of him, he fell at his feet. <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He pleaded with him many times, saying: “My little daughter is extremely ill.<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> Please come and put your hands on her so that she may get well and live.” <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> At that Jesus went with him, and a large crowd was following him and pressing against him.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now there was a woman who had had a flow of blood for 12 years. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> She had suffered much<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> at the hands of many physicians and had spent all her resources, and she was no better but, rather, had become worse. <span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> When she heard the reports about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his outer garment, <span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> for she kept saying: “If I touch just his outer garments, I will get well.” <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And immediately her flow of blood dried up, and she sensed in her body that she had been healed of the grievous sickness.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Immediately Jesus realized in himself that power had gone out of him, and he turned around in the crowd and asked: “Who touched my outer garments?” <span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But his disciples said to him: “You see the crowd pressing in on you, and you ask, ‘Who touched me?’” <span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> However, he was looking around to see who had done this. <span id="chapter5_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The woman, frightened and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. <span id="chapter5_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> He said to her: “Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be healed from your grievous sickness.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> While he was yet speaking, some men from the home of the presiding officer of the synagogue came and said: “Your daughter died! Why bother the Teacher any longer?” <span id="chapter5_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> But Jesus overheard their words and said to the presiding officer of the synagogue: “Have no fear,<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> only exercise faith.” <span id="chapter5_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Now he did not let anyone follow him except Peter, James, and John the brother of James.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> So they came to the house of the presiding officer of the <span id="page1357" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1357" data-before-text="1357"></span>synagogue, and he saw the commotion and those weeping and wailing loudly. <span id="chapter5_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> After stepping in, he said to them: “Why are you weeping and causing this commotion? The child has not died but is sleeping.” <span id="chapter5_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> At this they began to laugh at him scornfully. But after sending them all outside, he took the child’s father and mother and those with him, and he went in where the child was. <span id="chapter5_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Then, taking the hand of the child, he said to her: <em>“Talʹi·tha cuʹmi,”</em> which, when translated, means: “Little girl, I say to you, get up!” <span id="chapter5_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And immediately the girl rose and began walking. (She was 12 years old.) And at once they were beside themselves with great ecstasy. <span id="chapter5_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> But he ordered them again and again<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> to let no one learn of this, and he said that something should be given her to eat.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p139" data-pid="139"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:2</span></a> Or “memorial tombs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p140" data-pid="140"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:13</span></a> Or “steep bank.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p141" data-pid="141"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:19</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p142" data-pid="142"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:20</span></a> Or “the Ten City Region.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p143" data-pid="143"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:23</span></a> Or “is near her end.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p144" data-pid="144"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:26</span></a> Or “had been put to many pains.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p145" data-pid="145"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:36</span></a> Or “Stop being afraid.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p146" data-pid="146"><a href="1001061145-split5.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 5:43</span></a> Or “he strongly ordered them.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
