<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_7.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p314" data-pid="314" class="p314 sb"><span id="pos29205"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying: <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Stand in the gate of the house of Jehovah and proclaim there this message, ‘Hear the word of Jehovah, all you people of Judah who enter these gates to bow down to Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “Reform your ways and your actions, and I will allow you to keep residing in this place. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Do not put your trust in deceptive words and say, ‘This is<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah!’ <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For if you truly reform your ways and actions; if you truly uphold justice between a man and his neighbor; <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> if you do not oppress foreign residents, orphans,<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> and widows; if you do not shed innocent blood in this place; and if you do not follow other gods to your own harm; <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> then I will allow you to keep residing in this place, in the land I gave to your forefathers for all time.”’”<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a></p>
<p id="p315" data-pid="315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “But you are putting your trust in deceptive words—it will bring absolutely no benefit. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Can you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make sacrifices<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> to Baʹal, and follow after gods you had not known, <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and then come and stand before me in this house that bears my name and say, ‘We will be saved,’ despite your doing all these detestable things? <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Has this house that bears my name become a cave of robbers in your eyes? Here I have seen it for myself,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p316" data-pid="316" class="p316 sb"><span id="pos30636"></span><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “‘However, go now to my place in Shiʹloh, where I first caused my name to reside, and see what I did to it because of the badness of my people Israel. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But you kept doing all these things,’ declares Jehovah, ‘and even though I spoke to you again and again,<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> you did not listen. I kept calling you, but you would not answer. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So I will do to the house that bears my name, in which you are trusting, and to this place that I gave to you and your forefathers, just as I did to Shiʹloh. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I will throw you out of my sight, just as I threw out all your brothers, all the descendants of Eʹphra·im.’</p>
<p id="p317" data-pid="317" class="p317 sb"><span id="pos31261"></span><span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “As for you, do not pray in behalf of this people. Do not cry out or offer a prayer or plead with me in their behalf, for I will not listen to you. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? <span id="pos31515"></span><span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The sons are gathering wood, the fathers are lighting the fire, and the wives are kneading dough in order to make sacrificial cakes to the Queen of Heaven,<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> and they are pouring out drink offerings to other gods to offend me. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> ‘But am I the one they are <span id="page1045" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1045" data-before-text="1045"></span>hurting?’<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> declares Jehovah. ‘Is it not they themselves, to their own shame?’ <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says, ‘Look! My anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place, on man and beast, on the trees of the field and the fruitage of the ground; it will burn and will not be extinguished.’</p>
<p id="p318" data-pid="318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘Go ahead, add your whole burnt offerings to your other sacrifices, and eat the flesh yourselves. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For on the day I brought your forefathers out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak with them or command them concerning whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But I did give them this command: “Obey my voice, and I will become your God, and you will become my people. You must walk in all the way that I command, so that it may go well with you.”’ <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But they did not listen or incline their ear; instead, they walked in their own schemes,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> stubbornly following their wicked heart, and they went backward, not forward, <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> from the day your forefathers came out of the land of Egypt until this day. So I kept sending all my servants the prophets to you, sending them each day, again and again.<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But they refused to listen to me, and they did not incline their ear. Instead, they were stubborn,<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> and they acted worse than their forefathers!</p>
<p id="p319" data-pid="319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “You will speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you; you will call to them, but they will not answer you. <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And you will say to them, ‘This is the nation that did not obey the voice of Jehovah their God and refused to accept discipline. Faithfulness has perished and is not even mentioned among them.’<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a></p>
<p id="p320" data-pid="320" class="p320 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “Shear off your uncut<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> hair and throw it away, and on the bare hills raise a dirge,<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> for Jehovah has rejected and will abandon this generation that has infuriated him. <span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> ‘For the people of Judah have done what is bad in my eyes,’ declares Jehovah. ‘They have set up their disgusting idols in the house that bears my name, in order to defile it. <span id="pos33840"></span><span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> They have built the high places of Toʹpheth, which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinʹnom,<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> in order to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, something that I had not commanded and that had never even come into my heart.’<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a></p>
<p id="p321" data-pid="321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “‘Therefore look! the days are coming,’ declares Jehovah, ‘when it will no longer be called Toʹpheth or the Valley of the Son of Hinʹnom<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> but the Valley of the Slaughter. They will bury in Toʹpheth until there is no place left. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And the dead bodies of this people will become food for the birds of the heavens and for the beasts of the earth, with no one to frighten them away. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> I will put an end to the sound of exultation and the sound of rejoicing, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, for the land will be reduced to ruins.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p1649" data-pid="1649"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:4</span></a> Lit., “They are,” referring to all the buildings of the temple complex.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p1650" data-pid="1650"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:6</span></a> Or “fatherless children.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p1651" data-pid="1651"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:7</span></a> Or “from eternity to eternity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p1652" data-pid="1652"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:9</span></a> Or “sacrificial smoke.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p1653" data-pid="1653"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:13</span></a> Lit., “rising up early and speaking.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p1654" data-pid="1654"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:18</span></a> The title of a goddess worshipped by apostate Israelites; possibly a fertility goddess.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p1655" data-pid="1655"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:19</span></a> Or “offending; provoking.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p1656" data-pid="1656"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:24</span></a> Or “advice.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p1657" data-pid="1657"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:25</span></a> Lit., “daily rising up early and sending.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p1658" data-pid="1658"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:26</span></a> Lit., “they hardened their neck.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p1659" data-pid="1659"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:28</span></a> Lit., “is cut off from their mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p1660" data-pid="1660"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:29</span></a> Or “dedicated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p1661" data-pid="1661"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:29</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p1662" data-pid="1662"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:31</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>, “Gehenna.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p1663" data-pid="1663"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:31</span></a> Or “had never entered my thoughts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p1664" data-pid="1664"><a href="1001061128-split7.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 7:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>, “Gehenna.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
