<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_2.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos4329"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Then Hanʹnah said in prayer:</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sl">“My heart rejoices in Jehovah;</p><p data-pid="11" class="p11 sz">My horn<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> is exalted by Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sz">My mouth is opened wide against my enemies,</p><p data-pid="12" class="p12 sz">For I rejoice in your acts of salvation.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2</sup></strong> There is no one holy like Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="13" class="p13 sz">There is no one but you,</p><p data-pid="13" class="p13 sz">And there is no rock like our God.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Do not keep speaking with haughtiness;</p><p data-pid="14" class="p14 sz">Let nothing arrogant come from your mouth,</p><p data-pid="14" class="p14 sz">For Jehovah is a God of knowledge,</p><p data-pid="14" class="p14 sz">And by him deeds are rightly evaluated.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The bows of mighty men are shattered,</p><p data-pid="15" class="p15 sz">But those who are stumbling are given strength.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The well-fed must hire themselves out for bread,</p><p data-pid="16" class="p16 sz">But the hungry hunger no more.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sz">The barren has given birth to seven,</p><p data-pid="17" class="p17 sz">But she who had many sons has become desolate.<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a></p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jehovah kills, and he preserves life;<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a></p><p data-pid="18" class="p18 sz">He brings down to the Grave,<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> and he raises up.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Jehovah impoverishes, and he enriches;</p><p data-pid="19" class="p19 sz">He abases, and he exalts.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He raises the lowly one from the dust;</p><p data-pid="20" class="p20 sz">He lifts up the poor from the ash heap,<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a></p><p data-pid="20" class="p20 sz">To make them sit with princes,</p><p data-pid="20" class="p20 sz">Giving them a seat of honor.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sz">To Jehovah belong earth’s supports,</p><p data-pid="21" class="p21 sz">And he places the productive land upon them.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He guards the steps of his loyal ones,</p><p data-pid="22" class="p22 sz">But the wicked will be silenced in darkness,</p><p data-pid="22" class="p22 sz">For not by power does a man prevail.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sl"><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jehovah will shatter those fighting against him;<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a></p><p data-pid="23" class="p23 sz">He will thunder against them from the heavens.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sz">Jehovah will judge to the ends of the earth,</p><p data-pid="24" class="p24 sz">He will give power to his king</p><p data-pid="24" class="p24 sz">And exalt the horn<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> of his anointed one.”</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then El·kaʹnah went to his house in Raʹmah, but the boy <span id="page400" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="400" data-before-text="400"></span>became a minister of<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> Jehovah before Eʹli the priest.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos5970"></span><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now the sons of Eʹli were wicked men; they had no regard for Jehovah. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> This is what they did with the due right of the priests from the people: Whenever any man was offering a sacrifice, an attendant of the priest came with a three-pronged fork in his hand when the meat was boiling, <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and he would thrust it into the basin, the two-handled cooking pot, the cauldron, or the one-handled cooking pot. Whatever the fork brought up, the priest would take for himself. That is what they would do in Shiʹloh to all the Israelites coming there. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Also, even before the man sacrificing could make the fat smoke, an attendant of the priest would come and say to him: “Give the priest meat to roast. He will not take boiled meat from you, only raw meat.” <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When the man would say to him: “Let them first be sure to make the fat smoke, then take for yourself whatever you desire,”<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> he would say: “No, give it to me now; if not, I will take it by force!” <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Thus the sin of the attendants came to be very great before Jehovah, for the men treated the offering of Jehovah with disrespect.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now Samuel was ministering before Jehovah, wearing<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> a linen ephʹod, though he was just a boy. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Also, his mother would make for him a little sleeveless coat, and she brought it up to him year after year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And Eʹli blessed El·kaʹnah and his wife and said: “May Jehovah grant you a child from this wife in place of the one who was lent to Jehovah.” And they went back home. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jehovah turned his attention to Hanʹnah, so that she could conceive; and she gave birth to three more sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel continued growing up before Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now Eʹli was very old, but he had heard about everything that his sons were doing to all Israel and how they would lie down with the women who served at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He used to say to them: “Why do you keep doing things like these? For the things I am hearing about you from all the people are bad. <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> No, my sons, the report that I hear circulating among the people of Jehovah is not good. <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> If a man should sin against another man, someone may appeal to Jehovah for him;<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> but if a man should sin against Jehovah, who can pray for him?” But they refused to listen to their father, for Jehovah had determined to put them to death. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Meanwhile, the boy Samuel kept growing in stature and in favor both with Jehovah and with the people.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="pos8518"></span><span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> A man of God came to Eʹli and said to him: “This is what Jehovah says: ‘Did I not plainly reveal myself to your father’s house while they were in Egypt as slaves to the house of Pharʹaoh? <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And he was chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to serve as my priest and to go up on my altar to make sacrifices, to offer incense,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> and to bear an ephʹod before me; and I gave to the house of your forefather all the offerings made by fire of the Israelites.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Why do you men scorn<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> my sacrifice <span id="page401" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="401" data-before-text="401"></span>and my offering that I have commanded in my place of dwelling? Why do you keep honoring your sons more than me by fattening yourselves from the best portions of every offering of my people Israel?</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “‘That is why the word of Jehovah the God of Israel is: “I did indeed say that your house and the house of your forefather would always walk before me.” But now Jehovah declares: “It is unthinkable, on my part, because those honoring me I will honor, but those despising me will be treated with contempt.” <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Look! Days are coming when I will cut off your strength<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> and that of your father’s house, so that no man in your house will live to old age. <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And you will look upon a rival in my dwelling amid all the good that is done to Israel, and never again will there be an old man in your house. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The man of yours whom I do not cut off from serving at my altar will cause your eyes to fail and will bring you grief,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> but the greater number of your house will die by the sword of men. <span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And what happens to your two sons, Hophʹni and Phinʹe·has, will be the sign for you: On one day both of them will die. <span id="chapter2_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then I will raise up for myself a faithful priest. He will act in harmony with what is my heart’s desire;<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> and I will build for him a lasting house, and he will walk before my anointed one always. <span id="chapter2_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Anyone who remains in your house will come and bow down to him for the payment of money and a loaf of bread, and will say: “Assign me, please, to one of the priestly offices to eat a piece of bread.”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:1</span></a> Or “strength.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos48682">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:5</span></a> Lit., “has withered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:6</span></a> Or “brings to life.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:6</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:8</span></a> Or possibly, “garbage dump.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:10</span></a> Or possibly, “Those contending against Jehovah will be terrified.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:10</span></a> Or “strength.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos48682">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:11</span></a> Or “was serving.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:16</span></a> Or “your soul craves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:18</span></a> Lit., “girded with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:25</span></a> Or possibly, “God will arbitrate for him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:28</span></a> Or possibly, “to make sacrificial smoke billow up.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:28</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:29</span></a> Lit., “kick at.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “arm.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:33</span></a> Or “will cause your soul to pine away.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061113-split2.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 2:35</span></a> Or “is in my heart and in my soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
