<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_4.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos21192"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>King Solʹo·mon ruled over all Israel. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> These were his high officials:<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> Az·a·riʹah the son of Zaʹdok was the priest; <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> El·i·horʹeph and A·hiʹjah the sons of Shiʹsha were secretaries; Je·hoshʹa·phat the son of A·hiʹlud was the recorder; <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Be·naiʹah the son of Je·hoiʹa·da was in charge of the army; Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar were priests; <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah the son of Nathan was over the deputies; Zaʹbud the son of Nathan was a priest and the king’s friend; <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> A·hiʹshar was over the household; and Ad·o·niʹram the son of Abʹda was over those conscripted for forced labor.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon had 12 deputies in charge of all Israel who provided the king and his household with food. Each one was responsible for providing the food for one month of the year. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> These were their names: The son of Hur, in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im; <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> the son of Deʹker, in Maʹkaz, Sha·alʹbim, Beth-sheʹmesh, and Eʹlon-beth-haʹnan; <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> the son of Heʹsed, in A·rubʹboth (he <span id="page487" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="487" data-before-text="487"></span>had Soʹcoh and all the land of Heʹpher); <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the son of A·binʹa·dab, in all the slopes of Dor (Solʹo·mon’s daughter Taʹphath became his wife); <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Baʹa·na the son of A·hiʹlud, in Taʹa·nach, Me·gidʹdo, and all Beth-sheʹan, which is beside Zarʹe·than below Jezʹre·el, from Beth-sheʹan to Aʹbel-me·hoʹlah to the region of Jokʹme·am; <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> the son of Geʹber, in Raʹmoth-gilʹe·ad (he had the tent villages of Jaʹir the son of Ma·nasʹseh, which are in Gilʹe·ad; he also had the region of Arʹgob, which is in Baʹshan: 60 large cities with walls and copper bars); <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> A·hinʹa·dab the son of Idʹdo, in Ma·ha·naʹim; <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> A·himʹa·az, in Naphʹta·li (he took Basʹe·math, another of Solʹo·mon’s daughters, as his wife); <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Baʹa·na the son of Huʹshai, in Ashʹer and Be·aʹloth; <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Je·hoshʹa·phat the son of Pa·ruʹah, in Isʹsa·char; <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Shimʹe·i the son of Eʹla, in Benjamin; <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Geʹber the son of Uʹri, in the land of Gilʹe·ad, the land of Siʹhon king of the Amʹor·ites and of Og king of Baʹshan. There was also one deputy in charge of all these other deputies in the land.</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos23273"></span><span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Judah and Israel were as numerous as the grains of sand by the sea; they were eating and drinking and rejoicing.</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> to the land of the Phi·lisʹtines and to the boundary of Egypt. They brought tribute and served Solʹo·mon all the days of his life.</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon’s food for each day was 30 cor measures<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> of fine flour and 60 cor measures of flour, <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> 10 fattened cattle, 20 pastured cattle, and 100 sheep, besides some stags, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened cuckoos. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For he controlled everything this side of the River,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> from Tiphʹsah to Gazʹa, including all the kings on this side of the River; and he enjoyed peace in every region, all around him. <span id="pos24005"></span><span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Judah and Israel lived in security, everyone under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba, all the days of Solʹo·mon.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And Solʹo·mon had 4,000<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> stalls of horses for his chariots and 12,000 horses.<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a></p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> These deputies supplied food to King Solʹo·mon and to everyone who ate at the table of King Solʹo·mon. Each was responsible for his month and saw to it that nothing was lacking. <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> They also brought barley and straw wherever it was needed for the horses and for the teams of horses, each according to his quota.</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos24567"></span><span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And God gave Solʹo·mon wisdom and discernment in very great measure and a broadness of heart<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> like the sand on the seashore. <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon’s wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the people of the East and all the wisdom of Egypt. <span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> He was wiser than any other man, wiser than Eʹthan the Ezʹra·hite and Heʹman, Calʹcol, and Darʹda, the sons of Maʹhol; his fame spread among all the surrounding nations. <span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> He composed<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> 3,000 proverbs and his songs numbered 1,005. <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> He would speak about the trees, from the cedar in Lebʹa·non to the hyssop that grows on the wall; he would speak about <span id="page488" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="488" data-before-text="488"></span>the animals, the birds,<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> the creeping things,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> and the fish. <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> People from all the nations came to hear Solʹo·mon’s wisdom, including kings from all over the earth who had heard about his wisdom.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:2</span></a> Or “his princes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:21</span></a> That is, the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:22</span></a> A cor equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:24</span></a> That is, west of the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:26</span></a> This figure is found in some manuscripts and in the parallel account. Other manuscripts say 40,000.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:26</span></a> Or “horsemen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:29</span></a> Or “heart with understanding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:32</span></a> Or “spoke.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:33</span></a> Or “flying creatures.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061115-split4.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:33</span></a> Possibly including reptiles and insects.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
