<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_25.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="pos123745"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>In the ninth year of Zed·e·kiʹah’s reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem. He camped against it and built a siege wall all around it, <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and the city was under siege until the 11th year of King Zed·e·kiʹah. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was severe in the city, and there was no food for the people of the land. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The city wall <span id="page564" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="564" data-before-text="564"></span>was broken through, and all the soldiers fled by night through the gate between the double wall near the king’s garden, while the Chal·deʹans were surrounding the city; and the king went by the way of the Arʹa·bah. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But the Chal·deʹan army pursued the king, and they overtook him in the desert plains of Jerʹi·cho, and all his troops were scattered from his side. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Ribʹlah, and they passed sentence on him. <span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They slaughtered Zed·e·kiʹah’s sons before his eyes; then Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar blinded Zed·e·kiʹah’s eyes, bound him with copper fetters, and brought him to Babylon.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="pos124861"></span><span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, that is, in the 19th year of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar the king of Babylon, Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard, the servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He burned down the house of Jehovah, the king’s house,<span id="footnotesource200"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote200">*</a> and all the houses of Jerusalem; he also burned down the house of every prominent man. <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the walls surrounding Jerusalem were pulled down by the entire Chal·deʹan army that was with the chief of the guard. <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard took into exile the rest of the people who were left in the city, the deserters who had gone over to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the population. <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But the chief of the guard left some of the poorest people of the land to serve as vinedressers and as compulsory laborers. <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the Chal·deʹans broke into pieces the copper pillars of the house of Jehovah and the carriages and the copper Sea that were in the house of Jehovah, and they carried the copper away to Babylon. <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They also took the cans, the shovels, the extinguishers, the cups, and all the copper utensils used in the temple service. <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The chief of the guard took the fire holders and the bowls that were of genuine gold and silver. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> As for the two pillars, the Sea, and the carriages that Solʹo·mon had made for the house of Jehovah, the copper of all these articles was beyond weighing. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Each pillar was 18 cubits<span id="footnotesource201"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote201">*</a> high, and the capital on it was of copper; and the height of the capital was three cubits, and the network and pomegranates all around on the capital were all made of copper. The second pillar with its network was like it.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The chief of the guard also took Se·raiʹah the chief priest, Zeph·a·niʹah the second priest, and the three doorkeepers. <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And he took from the city one court official who was the commissioner over the soldiers, five close associates of the king who were found in the city, as well as the secretary of the chief of the army, the one mustering the people of the land, and 60 men of the common people of the land who were yet found in the city. <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Ribʹlah. <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Ribʹlah in the land of Haʹmath. Thus Judah went into exile from its land.</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="pos127276"></span><span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon appointed Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan over the people whom he had left behind in the land of Judah. <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When all the army <span id="page565" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="565" data-before-text="565"></span>chiefs and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Ged·a·liʹah, they immediately came to Ged·a·liʹah at Mizʹpah. They were Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah, Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah, Se·raiʹah the son of Tan·huʹmeth the Ne·tophʹa·thite, and Ja·az·a·niʹah the son of the Ma·acʹa·thite, together with their men. <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Ged·a·liʹah swore an oath to them and their men and said to them: “Do not be afraid of being servants to the Chal·deʹans. Live in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well with you.”</p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb"><span id="pos128016"></span><span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And in the seventh month, Ishʹma·el son of Neth·a·niʹah son of E·lishʹa·ma, who was of the royal line,<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> came with ten other men, and they struck down Ged·a·liʹah and he died, along with the Jews and the Chal·deʹans who were with him in Mizʹpah. <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> After that all the people, from small to great, including the army chiefs, rose up and went to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chal·deʹans.</p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="pos128422"></span><span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And in the 37th year of the exile of King Je·hoiʹa·chin of Judah, in the 12th month, on the 27th day of the month, King Eʹvil-merʹo·dach of Babylon, in the year he became king, released<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> King Je·hoiʹa·chin of Judah from prison. <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He spoke kindly with him and put his throne higher than the thrones of the other kings who were with him in Babylon. <span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Je·hoiʹa·chin took off his prison garments, and he regularly ate before him all the days of his life. <span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> A regular allowance of food was given him from the king, day after day, all the days of his life.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote200"><p id="p423" data-pid="423"><a href="1001061116-split25.xhtml#footnotesource200">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 25:9</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote201"><p id="p424" data-pid="424"><a href="1001061116-split25.xhtml#footnotesource201">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 25:17</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p425" data-pid="425"><a href="1001061116-split25.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 25:25</span></a> Lit., “the seed of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p426" data-pid="426"><a href="1001061116-split25.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 25:27</span></a> Lit., “raised up the head of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
