<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 44</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">44</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_44.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p530" data-pid="530" class="p530 sb"><span id="pos190580"></span><span id="chapter44"></span><span id="chapter44_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>44</strong> </span>He brought me back by way of the outer gate of the sanctuary facing east, and it was shut. <span id="chapter44_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to me: “This gate will remain shut. It is not to be opened, and no human will enter by it; for Jehovah, the God of Israel, has entered through it, so it must remain shut. <span id="chapter44_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, the chieftain will sit in it to eat bread before Jehovah, for he is a chieftain. He will come in through the porch of the gate, and he will go out through it.”</p>
<p id="p531" data-pid="531" class="p531 sb"><span id="pos191047"></span><span id="chapter44_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then he brought me through the north gate to the front of the temple. When I looked, I saw that the glory of Jehovah had filled the temple of Jehovah. So I fell with my face to the ground. <span id="chapter44_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to me: “Son of man, pay attention,<span id="footnotesource346"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote346">*</a> watch, and listen carefully to everything I tell you about the statutes and the laws of the temple of Jehovah. Pay close attention to the entryway of the temple and all the exits of the sanctuary. <span id="chapter44_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You must say to the rebellious house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “That is enough of your detestable practices, O house of Israel. <span id="chapter44_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When you bring foreigners who are uncircumcised in heart and flesh into my sanctuary, they profane my temple. You present my bread, fat and blood, while my covenant is being broken because of all your detestable practices. <span id="chapter44_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> You have not taken care of my holy things. Instead, you assign others to take care of the duties in my sanctuary.”’</p>
<p id="p532" data-pid="532" class="p532 sb"><span id="chapter44_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “No foreigner living in Israel who is uncircumcised in heart and in flesh may enter my sanctuary.”’</p>
<p id="p533" data-pid="533" class="p533 sb"><span id="pos192159"></span><span id="chapter44_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘But the Levites who strayed far from me when Israel strayed from me to follow their disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource347"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote347">*</a> will bear the consequences of their error. <span id="chapter44_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And they will become ministers in my sanctuary to oversee the gates of the temple and to minister at the temple. They will slaughter the whole burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they will stand before the people to minister to them. <span id="chapter44_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Because they ministered to them before their disgusting idols and became a stumbling block causing the house of Israel to sin, that is why I have raised my hand against them in an oath,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘and they will bear the consequences of their error. <span id="chapter44_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> They will not approach me to serve as my priests or approach any of my holy or most holy things, and they will bear their shame because of the detestable things that they did. <span id="chapter44_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But I will make them caretakers of the responsibilities of the temple, to take care of its service and all the things that should be done in it.’</p>
<p id="p534" data-pid="534" class="p534 sb"><span id="chapter44_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “‘As for the Levitical priests, the sons of Zaʹdok, who took care of the responsibilities of my sanctuary when the Israelites strayed from me, they will approach me to minister to me, <span id="page1198" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1198" data-before-text="1198"></span>and they will stand before me to offer me the fat and the blood,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <span id="chapter44_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> ‘They are the ones who will enter my sanctuary, and they will approach my table to minister to me, and they will take care of their responsibilities to me.</p>
<p id="p535" data-pid="535" class="p535 sb"><span id="chapter44_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘When they come into the gates of the inner courtyard, they should wear linen garments. They should not wear any wool when they minister in the gates of the inner courtyard or inside it. <span id="chapter44_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They should wear linen turbans on their head, and linen shorts should cover their hips. They should not wear anything that makes them perspire. <span id="chapter44_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Before they go out to the outer courtyard—the outer courtyard where the people are—they should remove the garments they were ministering in and place them in the holy dining rooms.<span id="footnotesource348"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote348">*</a> Then they will put on other garments, so that they will not transmit holiness to<span id="footnotesource349"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote349">*</a> the people with their garments. <span id="chapter44_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> They should not shave their head or let the hair of their head grow long. They should trim the hair of their heads. <span id="chapter44_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The priests should not drink wine when they enter the inner courtyard. <span id="chapter44_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> They should not take a widow or a divorced woman as a wife; but they may marry either a virgin of the offspring of Israel or the widow of a priest.’</p>
<p id="p536" data-pid="536" class="p536 sb"><span id="chapter44_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘They should instruct my people about the difference between what is holy and what is common; and they will teach them the difference between what is unclean and what is clean. <span id="chapter44_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> They should preside as judges in a legal case; they must judge it in harmony with my judicial decisions. They should keep my laws and my statutes regarding all my festivals and sanctify my sabbaths. <span id="chapter44_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> They should not approach any dead human, or they will become unclean. However, they may make themselves unclean for their father, mother, son, daughter, brother, or an unmarried sister. <span id="chapter44_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And after the purification of a priest, they should count off seven days for him. <span id="chapter44_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> On the day he enters into the holy place, into the inner courtyard, to minister in the holy place, he should present his sin offering,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p537" data-pid="537" class="p537 sb"><span id="chapter44_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “‘And this will be their inheritance: I am their inheritance. You should not give them any possession in Israel, for I am their possession. <span id="chapter44_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> They will be the ones to eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, and every devoted thing in Israel will become theirs. <span id="chapter44_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The choicest of all the first ripe fruits and every sort of contribution from you will belong to the priests. And you should give the firstfruits of your coarse meal to the priest. This will cause a blessing to rest on your households. <span id="chapter44_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The priests should not eat any bird or animal that was found dead or torn to pieces.’</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote346"><p id="p936" data-pid="936"><a href="1001061130-split44.xhtml#footnotesource346">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 44:5</span></a> Lit., “set your heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote347"><p id="p937" data-pid="937"><a href="1001061130-split44.xhtml#footnotesource347">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 44:10</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote348"><p id="p938" data-pid="938"><a href="1001061130-split44.xhtml#footnotesource348">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 44:19</span></a> Or “the holy chambers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote349"><p id="p939" data-pid="939"><a href="1001061130-split44.xhtml#footnotesource349">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 44:19</span></a> Lit., “sanctify.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
