<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_4.xhtml">1 - 49</a></p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos17046"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>“Now, O Israel, listen to the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am teaching you to observe, so that you may live and go in and take possession of the land that Jehovah, the God of your forefathers, is giving you. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> You must not add to the word that I am commanding you, neither must you take away from it, so as to keep the commandments of Jehovah your God that I am commanding you.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Your own eyes have seen what Jehovah did in the case of the Baʹal of Peʹor; Jehovah your God annihilated from your midst every man who walked after the Baʹal of Peʹor. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But you who are holding fast to Jehovah your God are all alive today. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> See, I have taught you regulations and judicial decisions, just as Jehovah my God has commanded me, so that you may observe them in the land you will take possession of. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You must carefully follow them, because this will show wisdom and understanding on your part before <span id="page280" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="280" data-before-text="280"></span>the peoples who will hear about all these regulations, and they will say, ‘This great nation is undoubtedly a wise and understanding people.’ <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For what great nation has gods as near to it as Jehovah our God is to us whenever we call on him? <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And what great nation has righteous regulations and judicial decisions like this entire Law that I am putting before you today?</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos18361"></span><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Just be careful and watch yourself closely,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> so that you may not forget the things that your eyes have seen and so that they may not depart from your heart all the days of your life. You must also make them known to your sons and to your grandsons. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> On the day that you stood before Jehovah your God in Horʹeb, Jehovah said to me, ‘Congregate the people together to me so that I may let them hear my words, in order that they may learn to fear me all the days that they are alive on the ground and that they may teach their sons.’</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “So you came near and stood at the base of the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire up to the very heavens;<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> there was darkness, cloud, and thick gloom. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And Jehovah began to speak to you out of the fire. You heard the sound of words, but you saw no form—there was only a voice. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And he declared his covenant to you, which he commanded you to observe—the Ten Commandments.<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> Afterward, he wrote them on two tablets of stone. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> At that time Jehovah commanded me to teach you regulations and judicial decisions, which you are to observe in the land you will enter to take possession of.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos19532"></span><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Therefore, watch yourselves closely<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a>—since you did not see any form on the day Jehovah spoke to you in Horʹeb out of the middle of the fire— <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> that you may not act corruptly by making for yourselves any carved image having the form of any symbol, the representation of male or female, <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the representation of any animal on the earth or the representation of any bird that flies in the sky, <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the representation of anything creeping on the ground or the representation of any fish in the waters under the earth. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And when you raise your eyes to the heavens and see the sun and the moon and the stars—all the army of the heavens—do not get seduced and bow down to them and serve them. Jehovah your God has given them to all the peoples under the whole heavens. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But you are the ones Jehovah took and brought out of the iron-smelting furnace, out of Egypt, to become the people of his personal possession,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> as you are today.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Jehovah became angry with me because of you, and he swore that I should not cross the Jordan or go into the good land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For I am to die in this land; I will not cross the Jordan, but you will cross over and take possession of this good land. <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Be careful that you do not forget the covenant of Jehovah your God that he made with you, and do not make for yourselves a carved image, the form of anything forbidden to you by Jehovah your God. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For Jehovah <span id="page281" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="281" data-before-text="281"></span>your God is a consuming fire, a God who requires exclusive devotion.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “If you become father to sons and grandsons and you have lived a long time in the land and you act ruinously and make a carved image of any kind and you do what is evil in the eyes of Jehovah your God so as to offend him, <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I do take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that you will surely and quickly perish from the land that you are crossing the Jordan to take possession of. You will not last long on it, but you will be utterly annihilated. <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Jehovah will scatter you among the peoples, and just a few of you will survive among the nations to which Jehovah will have driven you. <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> There you will have to serve gods of wood and stone made by human hands, gods that cannot see or hear or eat or smell.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “If you search for Jehovah your God from there, you will certainly find him, if you inquire for him with all your heart and with all your soul.<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> When you are in great distress and all these things have happened to you in later times, then you will return to Jehovah your God and listen to his voice. <span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> For Jehovah your God is a merciful God. He will not desert you or bring you to ruin or forget the covenant that he swore to your forefathers.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos22323"></span><span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “Ask, now, about the former days before your time, from the day when God created man on the earth; search from one end of the heavens to the other end of the heavens. Has anything so great ever happened or has anything like it ever been heard of? <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Have any other people heard the voice of God speaking out of the fire the way you have heard it and kept on living? <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Or has God ever attempted to take for himself a nation out of the midst of another nation along with judgments,<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> with signs, with miracles, with war, with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with terrifying deeds, as Jehovah your God did for you in Egypt before your very eyes? <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> You yourselves have been shown these things so you will know that Jehovah is the true God; there is no other besides him. <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> He made you hear his voice from the heavens to correct you, and on the earth he made you see his great fire, and his words you heard from out of the fire.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> “Because he loved your forefathers and has chosen their offspring<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> after them, you were brought out of Egypt in his presence by his great power. <span id="chapter4_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> From before you he drove away nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in and give you their land as an inheritance, as it is today. <span id="chapter4_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Know, therefore, on this day, and take it to heart that Jehovah is the true God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. There is no other. <span id="chapter4_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> You must keep his regulations and his commandments that I am commanding you today, in order that it may go well with you and your sons after you, so that you may long remain in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you.”</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos23982"></span><span id="chapter4_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> At that time Moses set apart three cities on the eastern side of the Jordan. <span id="chapter4_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> If any manslayer unintentionally kills his fellow man and he did not previously hate him, he must flee to one of these cities and live. <span id="chapter4_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> The cities are Beʹzer in the wilderness on the <span id="page282" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="282" data-before-text="282"></span>tableland<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> for the Reuʹben·ites, Raʹmoth in Gilʹe·ad for the Gadʹites, and Goʹlan in Baʹshan for the Ma·nasʹsites.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="pos24388"></span><span id="chapter4_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Now this is the Law that Moses set before the people of Israel. <span id="chapter4_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> These are the reminders, the regulations, and the judicial decisions that Moses gave to the Israelites after they came out of Egypt, <span id="chapter4_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> in the region of the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth-peʹor, in the land of King Siʹhon of the Amʹor·ites, who was dwelling in Heshʹbon, whom Moses and the Israelites defeated after coming out of Egypt. <span id="chapter4_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> And they took possession of his land and of the land of King Og of Baʹshan, the two kings of the Amʹor·ites who were in the region east of the Jordan, <span id="chapter4_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> from A·roʹer, which is on the rim of the Arʹnon Valley,<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> up to Mount Siʹon, that is, Herʹmon, <span id="chapter4_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> and all the Arʹa·bah in the region east of the Jordan, and as far as the Sea of the Arʹa·bah,<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> at the base of the slopes of Pisʹgah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p404" data-pid="404"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:9</span></a> Or “and pay close attention to your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p405" data-pid="405"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:11</span></a> Lit., “up to the heart of the heavens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p406" data-pid="406"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:13</span></a> Lit., “the Ten Words.” Also known as the Decalogue.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p407" data-pid="407"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:15</span></a> Or “pay close attention to your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p408" data-pid="408"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:20</span></a> Or “of his inheritance.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p409" data-pid="409"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:29</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p410" data-pid="410"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:34</span></a> Or “trials.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p411" data-pid="411"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:37</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:43</span></a> Or “plateau.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:48</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p414" data-pid="414"><a href="1001061109-split4.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 4:49</span></a> That is, the Salt Sea, or the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
