<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061120"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav16.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav16_1.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page668" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="668" data-before-text="668"></span><strong>NEHEMIAH</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos52"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>The words of Ne·he·miʹah<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the son of Hac·a·liʹah: Now in the month of Chisʹlev,<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> in the 20th year, I was in Shuʹshan<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> the citadel.<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At that time Ha·naʹni, one of my brothers, arrived with other men from Judah, and I asked them about the remaining Jews who had escaped the captivity, and also about Jerusalem. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They replied: “Those remaining there in the province<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> who have survived the captivity are in a terrible situation and in disgrace. The walls of Jerusalem are broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire.”</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos593"></span><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and began to weep and mourn for days, and I kept fasting and praying before the God of the heavens. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> I said: “O Jehovah, the God of the heavens, the great and awe-inspiring God who keeps his covenant and shows loyal love to those who love him and keep his commandments, <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> please, let your ear be attentive and your eyes open to listen to the prayer of your servant that I am praying to you today, day and night, concerning your servants the Israelites, all the while confessing the sins that the people of Israel have committed against you. We have sinned, both I and the house of my father. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> We have certainly acted corruptly against you by not keeping the commandments, regulations, and judicial decisions that you gave to your servant Moses.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Remember, please, the word that you commanded<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> your servant Moses: ‘If you act unfaithfully, I will scatter you among the peoples. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But if you return to me and observe my commandments and obey them, though your dispersed people should be at the end of the heavens, I will gather them from there and bring them to the place that I have chosen to have my name reside.’ <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> They are your servants and your people, whom you redeemed by your great power and by your mighty hand. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> O Jehovah, please, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to the prayer of your servants who take delight in fearing your name, and please, grant success to your servant today, and may this man show me compassion.”</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb">Now I was cupbearer to the king.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p132" data-pid="132"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:1</span></a> Meaning “Jah Comforts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:1</span></a> See <a href="1001061237.xhtml">App. B15</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:1</span></a> Or “Susa.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p135" data-pid="135"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:1</span></a> Or “palace; fortress.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p136" data-pid="136"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:3</span></a> Or “jurisdictional district.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p137" data-pid="137"><a href="1001061120.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 1:8</span></a> Or “the warning you gave to.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
