<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_3.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos9396"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Once again he entered into a synagogue, and a man with a withered<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> hand was there. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So they were watching him closely to see whether he would cure the man on the Sabbath, in order to accuse him. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He said to the man with the withered<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> hand: “Get up and come to the center.” <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Next he said to them: “Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save a life<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> or to kill?” But they kept silent. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> After looking around at them with indignation, being thoroughly grieved at the insensibility of their hearts, he said to the man: “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At that the Pharisees went out and immediately began holding council with the party followers of Herod against him, in order to kill him.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos10167"></span><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> But Jesus departed for the sea along with his disciples, and a great multitude from Galʹi·lee and from Ju·deʹa followed him. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Even from Jerusalem and from Id·u·meʹa and from across the Jordan and from around Tyre and Siʹdon, a great multitude <span id="page1353" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1353" data-before-text="1353"></span>came to him when they heard about the many things he was doing. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And he told his disciples to have a small boat ready for him so that the crowd would not press in on him. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Because he cured many, all those who had serious diseases were crowding around him to touch him. <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Even the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, would fall down before him and cry out and say: “You are the Son of God.” <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But many times he sternly ordered them not to make him known.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos10904"></span><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He ascended a mountain and summoned those whom he wanted, and they came to him. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And he formed<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> a group of 12, whom he also named apostles, those who were to accompany him and whom he would send out to preach <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and to have authority to expel demons.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And the group of 12 that he formed<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> were Simon, to whom he also gave the name Peter, <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> James the son of Zebʹe·dee and John the brother of James (he also gave these the name Bo·a·nerʹges, which means “Sons of Thunder”), <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Andrew, Philip, Bar·tholʹo·mew, Matthew, Thomas, James the son of Al·phaeʹus, Thad·daeʹus, Simon the Ca·na·naeʹan,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and Judas Is·carʹi·ot, who later betrayed him.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb">Then he went into a house, <span id="pos11613"></span><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and again the crowd gathered, so that they were not able even to eat a meal. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But when his relatives heard about it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying: “He has gone out of his mind.” <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Also, the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying: “He has Be·elʹze·bub,<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> and he expels the demons by means of the ruler of the demons.” <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So after calling them to him, he spoke to them with illustrations: “How can Satan expel Satan? <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> If a kingdom becomes divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand; <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and if a house becomes divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. <span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Also, if Satan has risen up against himself and has become divided, he cannot stand but is coming to an end. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> In fact, no one who enters the house of a strong man is able to steal his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man. Only then can he plunder his house. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Truly I say to you that all things will be forgiven the sons of men, no matter what sins they commit and what blasphemies they speak. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But whoever blasphemes against the holy spirit has no forgiveness forever but is guilty of everlasting sin.” <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> He said this because they were saying: “He has an unclean spirit.”</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos12871"></span><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Now his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent someone in to call him. <span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> As there was a crowd sitting around him, they said to him: “Look! Your mother and your brothers are outside asking for you.” <span id="chapter3_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But he replied to them: “Who are my mother and my brothers?” <span id="chapter3_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Then he looked at those sitting around him in a circle and said: “See, my mother and my brothers! <span id="chapter3_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Whoever does the will of God, this one is my brother and sister and mother.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p128" data-pid="128"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:1</span></a> Or “paralyzed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p129" data-pid="129"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:3</span></a> Or “paralyzed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p130" data-pid="130"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:4</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p131" data-pid="131"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:14</span></a> Or “appointed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p132" data-pid="132"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:16</span></a> Or “appointed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:18</span></a> Or “the zealous one.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061145-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 3:22</span></a> A designation applied to Satan.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
