<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_24.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p252" data-pid="252" class="p252 sb"><span id="pos107230"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>The anger of Jehovah again blazed against Israel when one incited David<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> against them, saying: “Go, take a count of Israel and Judah.” <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So the king said to Joʹab the chief of the army who was with him: “Please go through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba, and register the people, so that I may know the number of the people.” <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But Joʹab said to the king: “May Jehovah your God multiply the people 100 times, and may the eyes of my lord the king see it, but why does my lord the king want to do such a thing?”</p>
<p id="p253" data-pid="253" class="p253 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But the king’s word prevailed over Joʹab and the chiefs of the army. So Joʹab and the chiefs of the army went out from before the king to register the people of Israel. <span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They crossed the Jordan and camped at A·roʹer, to the right<span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> of the city in the middle of the valley,<span id="footnotesource171"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote171">*</a> and they went toward the Gadʹites and on to Jaʹzer. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After that they went on to Gilʹe·ad and the land of Tahʹtim-hodʹshi and continued to Dan-jaʹan and went around to Siʹdon. <span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then they went to the fortress of Tyre and all the cities of the Hiʹvites and of the Caʹnaan·ites, and finally they ended up in the Negʹeb of Judah at Beʹer-sheʹba. <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Thus they went through all the land and came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and 20 days. <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Joʹab now gave to the king the number of the people who were registered. Israel amounted to 800,000 warriors armed with swords, and the men of Judah were 500,000.</p>
<p id="p254" data-pid="254" class="p254 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But David’s heart<span id="footnotesource172"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote172">*</a> was struck with remorse after he had numbered the people. David then said to Jehovah: “I have sinned greatly by doing this. And now, Jehovah, please forgive your servant’s error, for I have acted very foolishly.” <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When David got up in the morning, Jehovah’s word came to Gad the prophet, David’s visionary, saying: <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Go and say to David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “I am giving you three options. Choose the one that I should bring on you.”’” <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So Gad came in to David and told him: “Should seven years of famine come on your land? Or should you flee for three months from your adversaries while they pursue you? Or should there be three days of pestilence in your land? Now consider carefully what I should reply to the One who sent me.” <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So David said to Gad: “It is very distressing to me. Let us fall, please, into the hand of Jehovah, for his mercy is great; but do not let me fall into the hand of man.”</p>
<p id="p255" data-pid="255" class="p255 sb"><span id="pos109648"></span><span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Jehovah sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning until the designated time, so that 70,000 of the people from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba died. <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, Jehovah felt regret<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> over the calamity, and he said to the angel bringing destruction among the people: “It is <span id="page478" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="478" data-before-text="478"></span>enough! Now let your hand drop.” Jehovah’s angel was close to the threshing floor of A·rauʹnah the Jebʹu·site.</p>
<p id="p256" data-pid="256" class="p256 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When David saw the angel who was striking the people down, he said to Jehovah: “I am the one who sinned, and I am the one who did wrong; but these sheep—what have they done? Let your hand, please, come against me and my father’s house.”</p>
<p id="p257" data-pid="257" class="p257 sb"><span id="pos110354"></span><span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Gad came in to David on that day and said to him: “Go up, set up for Jehovah an altar on the threshing floor of A·rauʹnah the Jebʹu·site.” <span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So David went up at the word of Gad, as Jehovah had commanded. <span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When A·rauʹnah looked down and saw the king and his servants coming toward him, A·rauʹnah immediately went out and bowed down to the king with his face to the ground. <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> A·rauʹnah asked: “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” David replied: “To buy from you the threshing floor in order to build an altar to Jehovah, so that the scourge against the people may be halted.” <span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But A·rauʹnah said to David: “Let my lord the king take it and offer up what seems good to him.<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> Here are cattle for the burnt offering and the threshing sledge and the equipment of the cattle for the wood. <span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> All of this, O king, A·rauʹnah gives to the king.” Then A·rauʹnah said to the king: “May Jehovah your God show you favor.”</p>
<p id="p258" data-pid="258" class="p258 sb"><span id="pos111307"></span><span id="chapter24_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> However, the king said to A·rauʹnah: “No, I must buy it from you for a price. I will not offer up to Jehovah my God burnt sacrifices that cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing floor and the cattle for 50 silver shekels.<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a> <span id="chapter24_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And David built an altar there to Jehovah and offered up burnt sacrifices and communion sacrifices. Jehovah then responded to the entreaty for the land, and the scourge against Israel was halted.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p428" data-pid="428"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:1</span></a> Or “when David was incited.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p429" data-pid="429"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:5</span></a> Or “the south.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote171"><p id="p430" data-pid="430"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource171">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:5</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote172"><p id="p431" data-pid="431"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource172">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:10</span></a> Or “conscience.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p432" data-pid="432"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:16</span></a> Or “grieved.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p433" data-pid="433"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:22</span></a> Lit., “what is good in his eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p434" data-pid="434"><a href="1001061114-split24.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 24:24</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
