<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_23.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="pos76872"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>And Sarah lived for 127 years; these were the years of Sarah’s life. <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So Sarah died in Kirʹi·ath-arʹba, that is, Hebʹron, in the land of Caʹnaan, and Abraham began to mourn and to weep over Sarah. <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Abraham got up from before his dead wife and he said to the sons of Heth: <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “I am a foreigner and settler among you. Give me a property to serve as a burial place in your midst so that I may remove my dead for burial.” <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> At this the sons of Heth answered Abraham: <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “Hear us, my lord. You are a chieftain of God<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> among us. You may bury your dead in the choicest of our burial places. None of us will hold back his burial place from you to prevent you from burying your dead.”</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So Abraham got up and bowed down to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth, <span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and said to them: “If you<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> agree to let me remove my dead for burial, then listen to me and urge Eʹphron the son of Zoʹhar <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> to sell me the cave of Mach·peʹlah, which belongs to him; it is at the edge of his field. Let him sell it to me in your presence for the full amount of silver so that I may have a property for a burial place.”</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Now Eʹphron was sitting among the sons of Heth. So Eʹphron the Hitʹtite answered Abraham in the hearing of the sons of Heth, and before all who entered the gate of his city, saying: <span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “No, my lord! Listen to me. I give you both the field and the cave that is in it. In the presence of the sons of my people, I give it to you. Bury your dead.” <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> At that Abraham bowed down before the people of the land <span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and <span id="page69" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="69" data-before-text="69"></span>spoke to Eʹphron in the hearing of the people, saying: “Listen to me, if you will! I will give you the full amount of silver for the field. Take it from me, in order that I may bury my dead there.”</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Eʹphron answered Abraham: <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “My lord, listen to me. This land is worth 400 silver shekels,<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> but what is that between me and you? So bury your dead.” <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Abraham listened to Eʹphron, and Abraham weighed out to Eʹphron the amount of silver that he had mentioned in the hearing of the sons of Heth, 400 silver shekels<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> according to the weight accepted by the merchants. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Thus the field of Eʹphron in Mach·peʹlah, which was in front of Mamʹre—the field and the cave in it and all the trees within the boundaries of the field—became confirmed as <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Abraham’s purchased property in the presence of the sons of Heth, before all those entering the gate of his city. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> After that Abraham buried his wife Sarah in the cave of the field of Mach·peʹlah in front of Mamʹre, that is, Hebʹron, in the land of Caʹnaan. <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Thus the field and the cave that was in it were transferred by the sons of Heth to Abraham as property for a burial place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p id="p630" data-pid="630"><a href="1001061105-split23.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 23:6</span></a> Or possibly, “a great chieftain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p id="p631" data-pid="631"><a href="1001061105-split23.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 23:8</span></a> Or “your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p id="p632" data-pid="632"><a href="1001061105-split23.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 23:15</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p id="p633" data-pid="633"><a href="1001061105-split23.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 23:16</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
