<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_4.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos13495"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>While the two were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came up to them. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> These were annoyed because the apostles were teaching the people and were openly declaring the resurrection of Jesus from the dead.<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So they seized<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> them and took them into custody until the next day, for it was already evening. <span id="pos13856"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, many of those who had listened to the speech believed, and the number of the men became about 5,000.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos13971"></span><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The next day their rulers, elders, and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem, <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> along with Anʹnas the chief priest, Caʹia·phas, John, Alexander, and all who were relatives of the chief priest. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They stood Peter and John in their midst and began to question them: “By what power or in whose name did you do this?” <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then Peter, filled with holy spirit, said to them:</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb">“Rulers of the people and elders, <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> if we are being examined today about a good deed to a crippled man, and you want to know who made this man well, <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that in the name of Jesus Christ the Naz·a·reneʹ, whom you executed on a stake but whom God raised up from the dead, by means of him this man stands here healthy in front of you. <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> This is ‘the stone that was treated by you builders as of no account that has become the chief cornerstone.’<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Furthermore, there is no salvation in anyone else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must get saved.”</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now when they saw the outspokenness<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> and ordinary men, they were astonished. And they began to realize that they had been with Jesus. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> As they were looking at the man who had been cured standing with them, they had nothing to say in answer to this. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So they commanded them to go outside the Sanʹhe·drin hall, and they began consulting with one another, <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> saying: “What should we do with these men? Because, for a fact, a noteworthy sign has occurred through them, one evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So that this does not spread any further among the people, let us threaten them and tell them not to speak to anyone anymore on the basis of this name.”</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> With that they called them and ordered them not to say anything at all or to teach on the basis of the name of Jesus. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But in reply Peter and John said to them: “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, judge for yourselves. <span id="pos16092"></span><span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But as for us, we cannot stop speaking about the things we have seen and heard.” <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So after they had threatened them further, they released them, since they did not find any grounds for punishing them and on account of the people, because they were all glorifying God over what had happened. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For the man on <span id="page1466" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1466" data-before-text="1466"></span>whom this miracle<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> of healing had been done was more than 40 years old.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos16496"></span><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After being released, they went to their own people and reported what the chief priests and the elders had said to them. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> On hearing this, they raised their voices with one accord to God and said:</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb">“Sovereign Lord, you are the One who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the things in them, <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and who said through holy spirit by the mouth of our forefather David, your servant: ‘Why did nations become agitated and peoples meditate on empty things? <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The kings of the earth took their stand and the rulers gathered together as one against Jehovah<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> and against his anointed one.’<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For truly both Herod and Pontius Pilate with men of the nations and with peoples of Israel were gathered together in this city against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> to do what your hand and counsel had determined beforehand to occur. <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And now, Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> give attention to their threats, and grant to your slaves to keep speaking your word with all boldness, <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> while you stretch out your hand for healing and while signs and wonders<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> occur through the name of your holy servant Jesus.”</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And when they had made supplication,<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> the place where they were gathered together was shaken, and they were one and all filled with the holy spirit and were speaking the word of God with boldness.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos17849"></span><span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Moreover, the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul,<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> and not even one of them would say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And with great power the apostles continued giving the witness about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and undeserved kindness was upon them all in large measure. <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> In fact, no one was in need among them, for all those who owned fields or houses would sell them and bring the value of what was sold, <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> and they would deposit it at the feet of the apostles. In turn distribution would be made to each one according to his need. <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> So Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barʹna·bas (which means, when translated, “Son of Comfort”), a Levite, a native of Cyʹprus, <span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> owned a piece of land, and he sold it and brought the money and deposited it at the feet of the apostles.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p244" data-pid="244"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:2</span></a> Or “the resurrection from the dead in the case of Jesus.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p245" data-pid="245"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:3</span></a> Or “arrested.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:11</span></a> Lit., “the head of the corner.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:13</span></a> Or “boldness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:13</span></a> Or “unlettered,” that is, not educated in the rabbinic schools; not meaning illiterate.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:22</span></a> Or “sign.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:26</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:26</span></a> Or “his Christ.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:29</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:30</span></a> Or “portents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:31</span></a> Or “had prayed earnestly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061148-split4.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 4:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
