<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_4.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos10320"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>“And you, son of man, take a brick and put it in front of you. Engrave on it a city—Jerusalem. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Lay siege to it, build a siege wall against it, raise up a siege rampart against it, set up camps against it, and surround it with battering rams. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Take an iron griddle and place it as an iron wall between you and the city. Then set your face against it, and it will be under siege; you are to besiege it. This is a sign to the house of Israel.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos10775"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Then you should lie on your left side and lay the guilt of the house of Israel on yourself.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> You will carry their guilt for the number of days that you lie on your side. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And I will impose on you 390 days, corresponding to the years of their guilt, and you will carry the guilt of the house of Israel. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And you must complete them.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb">“Then for a second time you will lie down, on your right side, and you will carry the guilt of the house of Judah for 40 days. A day for a year, a day for a year, is what I have given you. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And you will turn your face toward the siege of Jerusalem with your arm bared, and you must prophesy against it.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Look! I will tie you with ropes so that you cannot turn from your one side to your other <span id="page1137" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1137" data-before-text="1137"></span>side until you have completed the days of your siege.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “And you should take wheat, barley, broad beans, lentils, millet, and spelt and put them in one container and make them into bread for yourself. For the number of the days that you are lying on your side, 390 days, you will eat it. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You will weigh out and eat 20 shekels<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> of food per day. You will eat it at set times.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “And you will drink water by measure, a sixth of a hin.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> You will drink it at set times.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “You will eat it as you would a round barley loaf; you will bake it before their eyes, using dried human excrement as fuel.” <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jehovah went on to say: “This is how the Israelites will eat their bread—unclean—among the nations where I will disperse them.”</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I then said: “Not that, Sovereign Lord Jehovah! From my youth until now, I have<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> not been defiled by eating meat from an animal found dead or a torn animal, and no unclean<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> meat has entered my mouth.”</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So he said to me: “All right, I will allow you to use cattle manure instead of human excrement, and you will bake your bread over it.” <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He then said to me: “Son of man, here I am cutting off the food supply<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> in Jerusalem, and with great anxiety they will eat their bread ration by weight, and in horror they will drink their water ration by measure. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> This will happen so that lacking bread and water, they may look in shock at one another and waste away because of their error.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p609" data-pid="609"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:4</span></a> Lit., “it,” that is, Ezekiel’s left side.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p610" data-pid="610"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:10</span></a> About 230 g (7.3 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p611" data-pid="611"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:11</span></a> About 0.6 L (1.3 pt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p612" data-pid="612"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:14</span></a> Or “my soul has.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p613" data-pid="613"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:14</span></a> Or “foul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p614" data-pid="614"><a href="1001061130-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 4:16</span></a> Lit., “breaking the bread rods.” Possibly referring to rods used for storing bread.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
