<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">32</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_32.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="pos119886"></span><span id="chapter32"></span><span id="chapter32_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>32</strong> </span>After these things and these acts of faithfulness, King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a came and invaded Judah. He besieged the fortified cities, intent on breaking through and capturing them.</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> When Hez·e·kiʹah saw that Sen·nachʹer·ib had come and intended to wage war against Jerusalem, <span id="chapter32_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> he decided, after consulting with his princes and his warriors, to stop up the waters of the springs outside the city, and they gave him their support. <span id="chapter32_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Many people were gathered together, and they stopped up all the springs and the stream that flowed through the land, saying: “Why should the kings of As·syrʹi·a come and find plenty of water?”</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Furthermore, with determination he rebuilt the entire broken-down wall and raised towers on it, and outside he made another wall. He also repaired the Mound<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> of the City of David, and he made a large number of weapons<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> and shields. <span id="chapter32_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He then appointed military chiefs over the people and assembled them at the public square of the city gate and encouraged them,<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> saying: <span id="chapter32_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Be courageous and strong. Do not be afraid or be terrified because of the king of As·syrʹi·a and all the multitude with him, for there are more with us than there are with him. <span id="chapter32_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> With him is an arm of flesh,<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a> but with us is Jehovah our God to help us and to fight our battles.” And the people were strengthened by the words of King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah.</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="pos121272"></span><span id="chapter32_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> After this, while King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a was at Laʹchish with all his imperial might,<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a> he sent his servants to Jerusalem, to King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah and to all the Ju·deʹans in Jerusalem, saying:</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “This is what King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a says, ‘In what are you trusting that you remain in Jerusalem while it is besieged? <span id="chapter32_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Is not Hez·e·kiʹah misleading you and handing you over to die by famine and thirst, saying: “Jehovah our God will rescue us from the hand of the king of As·syrʹi·a”? <span id="chapter32_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Is this not the same Hez·e·kiʹah who removed your God’s<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a> high places and His altars and then said to Judah and Jerusalem: “You should bow down before one altar and on it you should make your sacrifices smoke”? <span id="chapter32_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Do you not know what I and my forefathers did to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands able to rescue their land from my hand? <span id="chapter32_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Who among all the gods of these nations that my forefathers devoted to destruction was able to rescue his people from my hand, so that your <span id="page646" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="646" data-before-text="646"></span>God should be able to rescue you from my hand? <span id="chapter32_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now do not let Hez·e·kiʹah deceive you or mislead you like this! Do not put faith in him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to rescue his people from my hand and from the hand of my forefathers. How much less, then, will your own God rescue you from my hand!’”</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> His servants said even more against Jehovah the true God and against Hez·e·kiʹah his servant. <span id="chapter32_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He also wrote letters to insult Jehovah the God of Israel and to speak against him, saying: “Like the gods of the nations of the lands who could not rescue their people from my hand, so the God of Hez·e·kiʹah will not rescue his people from my hand.” <span id="chapter32_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They kept calling loudly in the language of the Jews to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to make them afraid and to terrify them, in order to capture the city. <span id="chapter32_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> They spoke against the God of Jerusalem the same way as against the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are the work of man’s hands. <span id="pos123356"></span><span id="chapter32_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But King Hez·e·kiʹah and the prophet Isaiah the son of Aʹmoz kept praying about this and crying out to the heavens for help.</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Jehovah sent an angel and wiped out every mighty warrior, leader, and chief in the camp of the king of As·syrʹi·a, so that he went back to his own land in disgrace. He later entered the house<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> of his god, and there some of his own sons struck him down with the sword. <span id="chapter32_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So Jehovah saved Hez·e·kiʹah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of King Sen·nachʹer·ib of As·syrʹi·a and from the hand of all others and gave them rest on every side. <span id="chapter32_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And many brought gifts to Jehovah at Jerusalem and choice things to King Hez·e·kiʹah of Judah, and he was greatly respected by all the nations after that.</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb"><span id="pos124121"></span><span id="chapter32_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In those days Hez·e·kiʹah became sick and was at the point of death, and he prayed to Jehovah, who answered him and gave him a sign.<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a> <span id="chapter32_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But Hez·e·kiʹah did not respond appreciatively to the good done to him, for his heart became haughty, bringing indignation against him and against Judah and Jerusalem. <span id="chapter32_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> However, Hez·e·kiʹah humbled himself for the haughtiness of his heart, he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and Jehovah’s indignation did not come upon them in the days of Hez·e·kiʹah.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos124633"></span><span id="chapter32_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And Hez·e·kiʹah came to have vast riches and glory; and he made storehouses for himself for silver, gold, precious stones, balsam oil, shields, and for all the desirable articles. <span id="chapter32_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> He also made storage places for the produce of grain and new wine and oil, as well as stalls for all the different kinds of livestock and stalls for the flocks. <span id="chapter32_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He also acquired cities for himself, and an abundance of livestock, flocks, and herds, for God gave him very many possessions. <span id="chapter32_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> It was Hez·e·kiʹah who stopped up the upper source of the waters of Giʹhon and directed them straight down to the west to the City of David, and Hez·e·kiʹah was successful in every work of his. <span id="chapter32_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> However, when the spokesmen of the princes of Babylon were sent to ask him about the sign<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> that had occurred in the land, the true God left him alone to put him to the test, to get to know all that was in his heart.</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="page647" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="647" data-before-text="647"></span><span id="chapter32_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Hez·e·kiʹah and his acts of loyal love, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Aʹmoz, in the Book of the Kings of Judah and of Israel. <span id="chapter32_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Then Hez·e·kiʹah was laid to rest with his forefathers, and they buried him in the ascent to the burial places of the sons of David; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. And his son Ma·nasʹseh became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:5</span></a> Or “Millo.” A Hebrew term meaning “fill.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:5</span></a> Or “missiles.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:6</span></a> Lit., “spoke to their heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:8</span></a> Or “is human strength.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:9</span></a> Or “all his military might and splendor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:12</span></a> Lit., “his.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:21</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:24</span></a> Or “portent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p456" data-pid="456"><a href="1001061118-split32.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 32:31</span></a> Or “portent.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
