<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 34</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">34</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_34.xhtml">1 - 12</a></p>
<p id="p373" data-pid="373" class="p373 sb"><span id="pos150438"></span><span id="chapter34"></span><span id="chapter34_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>34</strong> </span>Then Moses went up from the desert plains of Moʹab to Mount Neʹbo, to the top of Pisʹgah, which faces Jerʹi·cho. And Jehovah showed him all the land, from Gilʹe·ad to Dan, <span id="chapter34_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and all Naphʹta·li and the land of Eʹphra·im and Ma·nasʹseh, and all the land of Judah as far as the western sea,<span id="footnotesource239"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote239">*</a> <span id="chapter34_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and the Negʹeb and the District, the valley plain of Jerʹi·cho, the city of the palm trees, as far as Zoʹar.</p>
<p id="p374" data-pid="374" class="p374 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to him: “This is the land about which I have sworn to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, ‘To your offspring<span id="footnotesource240"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote240">*</a> I will give it.’ I have let you see it with your own <span id="page324" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="324" data-before-text="324"></span>eyes, but you will not cross over there.”</p>
<p id="p375" data-pid="375" class="p375 sb"><span id="pos151087"></span><span id="chapter34_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> After that Moses the servant of Jehovah died there in the land of Moʹab just as Jehovah had said. <span id="chapter34_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He buried him in the valley in the land of Moʹab, opposite Beth-peʹor, and nobody knows where his grave is down to this day. <span id="chapter34_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Moses was 120 years old at his death. His eyes had not grown dim, and his strength had not departed. <span id="chapter34_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The people of Israel wept for Moses on the desert plains of Moʹab for 30 days. Then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were completed.</p>
<p id="p376" data-pid="376" class="p376 sb"><span id="chapter34_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hand on him; and the Israelites began to listen to him, and they did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="chapter34_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But there has never again arisen a prophet in Israel like Moses, whom Jehovah knew face-to-face. <span id="chapter34_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He performed all the signs and the miracles that Jehovah had sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharʹaoh and all his servants and all his land, <span id="chapter34_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> along with the mighty hand and the awesome power that Moses displayed before the eyes of all Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote239"><p id="p616" data-pid="616"><a href="1001061109-split34.xhtml#footnotesource239">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 34:2</span></a> That is, the Great Sea, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote240"><p id="p617" data-pid="617"><a href="1001061109-split34.xhtml#footnotesource240">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 34:4</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
