<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_9.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos31268"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>So Jehovah said to Moses: “Go in to Pharʹaoh and say to him, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of the Hebrews has said: “Send my people away so that they may serve me. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But if you refuse to send them away and you keep holding them, <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> look! Jehovah’s hand will come against your livestock in the field. On the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the herd, and the flock, there will be a devastating plague. <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And Jehovah will certainly make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, and nothing that belongs to the Israelites will die.”’” <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Moreover, Jehovah set an appointed time, saying: “Tomorrow Jehovah will do this in the land.”</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="page124" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="124" data-before-text="124"></span><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And Jehovah did this on the very next day, and all sorts of livestock of Egypt began to die, but not one of Israel’s livestock died. <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When Pharʹaoh inquired, look! not so much as one of Israel’s livestock had died. Nevertheless, Pharʹaoh’s heart continued to be unresponsive, and he did not send the people away.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos32267"></span><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Moses and Aaron: “Fill both of your hands with soot from a kiln, and Moses must throw it into the air in front of Pharʹaoh. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And it will become a fine dust on all the land of Egypt, and it will become festering boils on man and beast in all the land of Egypt.”</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So they took soot from a kiln and stood before Pharʹaoh, and Moses tossed it into the air, and it became festering boils breaking out on man and beast. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The magic-practicing priests were unable to stand before Moses because of the boils, for they had developed on the magic-practicing priests and on all the Egyptians. <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But Jehovah allowed Pharʹaoh’s heart to become obstinate, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had told Moses.</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos33017"></span><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Get up early in the morning and station yourself in front of Pharʹaoh, and say to him, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of the Hebrews has said: “Send my people away so that they may serve me. <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> For now I am directing all my blows to strike your heart, your servants, and your people, so that you may know that there is no one like me in all the earth. <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For by now I could have thrust my hand out to strike you and your people with a devastating plague, and you would have been wiped out<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> from the earth. <span id="pos33567"></span><span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But for this very reason I have kept you in existence: to show you my power and to have my name declared in all the earth. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Are you still behaving arrogantly against my people by not sending them away? <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Here I will cause a very great hail to rain down tomorrow about this time, such as has never occurred in Egypt from the day it was founded until now. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Therefore, send word to bring all your livestock and all that is yours in the field under shelter. Every man and beast caught in the field and not brought into the house will die when the hail comes down on them.”’”</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Anyone among Pharʹaoh’s servants who feared Jehovah’s word quickly brought his own servants and his livestock into the houses, <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> but whoever did not take Jehovah’s word to heart left his servants and his livestock in the field.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah now said to Moses: “Stretch out your hand toward the heavens, so that hail may come down on all the land of Egypt, on man and beast and all the vegetation of the field in the land of Egypt.” <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So Moses stretched out his rod toward the heavens, and Jehovah sent thunder and hail, and fire<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> fell down to the earth, and Jehovah kept making it rain down hail on the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> There was hail, and there was fire flashing in the midst of the hail. It was very heavy; there had never been any like it in the land since Egypt had become a nation. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The hail struck everything in the field throughout the land of Egypt, from man to beast, and it struck down all the vegetation and shattered all the trees of the field. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Only in <span id="page125" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="125" data-before-text="125"></span>the land of Goʹshen, where the Israelites were, there was no hail.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So Pharʹaoh sent for Moses and Aaron and said to them: “I have sinned this time. Jehovah is righteous, and I and my people are in the wrong. <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Plead with Jehovah that there may be an end to God’s thunder and hail. Then I will be willing to send you away, and you will not stay any longer.” <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So Moses said to him: “As soon as I go out of the city, I will spread out my hands before Jehovah. The thunder will stop and the hail will not continue any longer, so that you may know that the earth belongs to Jehovah. <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But as for you and your servants, I know already that even then, you will not fear Jehovah God.”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Now the flax and the barley had been struck down, because the barley was in the ear and the flax had flower buds. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But the wheat and the spelt had not been struck down, because they were later crops.<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Moses now went out of the city from Pharʹaoh and spread out his hands before Jehovah, and the thunder and the hail stopped and the rain quit pouring down on the earth. <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> When Pharʹaoh saw that the rain, the hail, and the thunder had stopped, he sinned again and hardened his heart, he as well as his servants. <span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And Pharʹaoh’s heart continued obstinate, and he did not send the Israelites away, just as Jehovah had stated through Moses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061106-split9.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 9:15</span></a> Or “effaced.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061106-split9.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 9:23</span></a> Perhaps describing powerful lightning.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061106-split9.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 9:32</span></a> Or “were seasonally late.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
