<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_22.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="pos73453"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Now after this the true God put Abraham to the test, and he said to him: “Abraham!” to which he replied: “Here I am!” <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he said: “Take, please, your son, your only son whom you so love, Isaac, and travel to the land of Mo·riʹah and offer him up there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains that I will designate to you.”</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So Abraham got up early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his servants along with him and his son Isaac. He split the wood for the burnt offering, and then he rose and traveled to the place that the true God indicated to him. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> On the third day, Abraham looked up and saw the place from a distance. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Abraham now said to his servants: “You stay here with the donkey, but the boy and I will go over there and worship and return to you.”</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac. Then he took in his hands the fire and the knife,<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> and the two of them walked on together. <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Isaac said to his father Abraham: “My father!” He replied: “Yes, my son!” So he continued: “Here are the fire and the wood, but where is the sheep for the burnt offering?” <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> To this Abraham said: “God himself will provide the sheep for the burnt offering, my son.” And both of them walked on together.</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Finally they reached the place that the true God had indicated to him, and Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood on it. He bound his son Isaac hand and foot and put him on the altar on top of the wood. <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> to kill his son. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But Jehovah’s angel called to him from the heavens and said: “Abraham, Abraham!” to which he answered: “Here I am!” <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then he said: “Do not harm the boy, and do not do anything at all to him, for now I do know that you are God-fearing because you have not withheld your <span id="page68" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="68" data-before-text="68"></span>son, your only one, from me.” <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> At that Abraham looked up, and there just beyond him was a ram caught by its horns in a thicket. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering in place of his son. <span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And Abraham named that place Je·hoʹvah-jiʹreh.<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> This is why it is still said today: “In the mountain of Jehovah it will be provided.”</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="pos75688"></span><span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And Jehovah’s angel called to Abraham a second time from the heavens, <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> saying: “‘By myself I swear,’ declares Jehovah, ‘that because you have done this and you have not withheld your son, your only one, <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply your offspring<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> like the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand on the seashore, and your offspring<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> will take possession of the gate<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> of his enemies. <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And by means of your offspring<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing for themselves because you have listened to my voice.’”</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> After that Abraham returned to his servants, and they got up and went back together to Beʹer-sheʹba; and Abraham continued to dwell at Beʹer-sheʹba.</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="pos76426"></span><span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After this it was reported to Abraham: “Here Milʹcah has also borne sons to Naʹhor your brother: <span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kem·uʹel the father of Aʹram, <span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Cheʹsed, Haʹzo, Pilʹdash, Jidʹlaph, and Be·thuʹel.” <span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Be·thuʹel became the father of Re·bekʹah. Milʹcah bore these eight to Naʹhor the brother of Abraham. <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> His concubine, whose name was Reuʹmah, also bore sons: Teʹbah, Gaʹham, Taʹhash, and Maʹa·cah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p id="p623" data-pid="623"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:6</span></a> Or “slaughtering knife.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p id="p624" data-pid="624"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:10</span></a> Or “slaughtering knife.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p id="p625" data-pid="625"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:14</span></a> Meaning “Jehovah Will Provide; Jehovah Will See to It.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p626" data-pid="626"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:17</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p627" data-pid="627"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:17</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p id="p628" data-pid="628"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:17</span></a> Or “the cities.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p id="p629" data-pid="629"><a href="1001061105-split22.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 22:18</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
