<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 40</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">40</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_40.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p364" data-pid="364" class="p364 sb"><span id="pos171630"></span><span id="chapter40"></span><span id="chapter40_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>40</strong> </span>Then Jehovah said to Moses: <span id="chapter40_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “On the first day of the first month, you are to set up the tabernacle, the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter40_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Place the ark of the Testimony in it, and screen off the Ark with the curtain. <span id="chapter40_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> You are to bring the table in and arrange the things that belong <span id="page169" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="169" data-before-text="169"></span>on it and bring in the lampstand and light its lamps. <span id="chapter40_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then put the golden altar for incense before the ark of the Testimony and put the screen<span id="footnotesource285"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote285">*</a> for the entrance of the tabernacle in place.</p>
<p id="p365" data-pid="365" class="p365 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “You are to put the altar of burnt offering before the entrance of the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, <span id="chapter40_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and place the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. <span id="chapter40_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then set up the courtyard around it and put up the screen<span id="footnotesource286"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote286">*</a> for the entrance of the courtyard. <span id="chapter40_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Next you are to take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and sanctify it and all its utensils, so that it will become something holy. <span id="chapter40_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> You are to anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils and sanctify the altar, so that it will become a most holy altar. <span id="chapter40_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And anoint the basin and its stand and sanctify it.</p>
<p id="p366" data-pid="366" class="p366 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Then bring Aaron and his sons near to the entrance of the tent of meeting, and wash them with water. <span id="chapter40_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And you are to clothe Aaron with the holy garments and anoint him and sanctify him, and he will serve as priest to me. <span id="chapter40_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> After that bring his sons near, and clothe them with robes. <span id="chapter40_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> You are to anoint them just as you anointed their father, so that they will serve as priests to me, and their anointing will serve continually for them as a lasting priesthood during their generations.”</p>
<p id="p367" data-pid="367" class="p367 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Moses did according to all that Jehovah had commanded him. He did just so.</p>
<p id="p368" data-pid="368" class="p368 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In the first month, in the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was set up. <span id="chapter40_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When Moses set up the tabernacle, he put its socket pedestals down, set up the panel frames, put its bars in, and set up its pillars. <span id="chapter40_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He spread out the tent over the tabernacle and placed the covering of the tent over it, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p369" data-pid="369" class="p369 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After that he took the Testimony and put it into the Ark and placed the poles on the Ark and put the cover on the Ark. <span id="chapter40_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He brought the Ark into the tabernacle and put the curtain of the screen in place and screened off the ark of the Testimony, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p370" data-pid="370" class="p370 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Next he put the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the curtain, <span id="chapter40_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and he arranged the row of bread on it before Jehovah, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p371" data-pid="371" class="p371 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He placed the lampstand in the tent of meeting in front of the table, on the south side of the tabernacle. <span id="chapter40_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He lit the lamps before Jehovah, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p372" data-pid="372" class="p372 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He next placed the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the curtain, <span id="chapter40_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> in order to make perfumed incense smoke on it, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p373" data-pid="373" class="p373 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then he put the screen<span id="footnotesource287"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote287">*</a> for the entrance of the tabernacle in place.</p>
<p id="p374" data-pid="374" class="p374 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> He placed the altar of burnt offering at the entrance of the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, so that he might offer up the burnt offering and the grain offering on it, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p375" data-pid="375" class="p375 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> He then placed the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing. <span id="chapter40_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet at it. <span id="page170" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="170" data-before-text="170"></span><span id="chapter40_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Whenever they went into the tent of meeting or approached the altar, they would wash, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p id="p376" data-pid="376" class="p376 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Finally he set up the courtyard around the tabernacle and the altar and put up the screen<span id="footnotesource288"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote288">*</a> for the entrance of the courtyard.</p>
<p id="p377" data-pid="377" class="p377 sb">So Moses finished the work. <span id="pos175413"></span><span id="chapter40_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And the cloud began to cover the tent of meeting, and Jehovah’s glory filled the tabernacle. <span id="chapter40_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Moses was not able to go into the tent of meeting because the cloud remained over it, and Jehovah’s glory filled the tabernacle.</p>
<p id="p378" data-pid="378" class="p378 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> And when the cloud lifted from the tabernacle, the Israelites would break camp during all stages of their journey. <span id="chapter40_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> However, if the cloud did not lift up, then they would not break camp until the day it lifted. <span id="chapter40_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> For Jehovah’s cloud was over the tabernacle by day, and a fire remained over it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel during all stages of their journey.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote285"><p id="p664" data-pid="664"><a href="1001061106-split40.xhtml#footnotesource285">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 40:5</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote286"><p id="p665" data-pid="665"><a href="1001061106-split40.xhtml#footnotesource286">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 40:8</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote287"><p id="p666" data-pid="666"><a href="1001061106-split40.xhtml#footnotesource287">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 40:28</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote288"><p id="p667" data-pid="667"><a href="1001061106-split40.xhtml#footnotesource288">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 40:33</span></a> Or “curtain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
