<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_3.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos10574"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Meanwhile, the boy Samuel was ministering to Jehovah before Eʹli, but word from Jehovah had become rare in those days; visions were not widespread.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> One day Eʹli was lying down in his usual place, and his eyes had grown dim; he was not able to see. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The lamp of God had not yet been extinguished, and Samuel was lying in the temple<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> of Jehovah, where the Ark of God was. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah then called Samuel. He answered: “Here I am.” <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He ran to Eʹli and said: “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said: “I did not call. Lie down again.” So he went and lay down. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jehovah called once again: “Samuel!” At this Samuel got up and went to Eʹli and said: “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said: “I did not call, my son. Lie down again.” <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> (Now Samuel had not yet come to know Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah had not yet been revealed to him.) <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So Jehovah called again, a third time: “Samuel!” At that he got up and went to Eʹli and said: “Here I am, for you called me.”</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb">Eʹli then realized that it was Jehovah who was calling the boy. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So Eʹli said to Samuel: “Go, lie down, and if he calls you, you should say, ‘Speak, Jehovah, for your servant is listening.’” And Samuel went and lay down in his place.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jehovah came and stood there, and he called as at the other times: “Samuel, Samuel!” At this Samuel said: “Speak, for your servant is listening.” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Samuel: “Look! I am doing something in Israel that will make both ears of anyone who hears about it tingle. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> On that day I will carry out toward Eʹli all that I said <span id="page402" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="402" data-before-text="402"></span>about his house, from start to finish. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You must tell him that I am bringing a lasting judgment on his house for the error that he has known about, for his sons are cursing God, but he has not rebuked them. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> That is why I have sworn to the house of Eʹli that the error of the house of Eʹli will never be atoned for by sacrifices or by offerings.”</p>
<p id="p35" data-pid="35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Samuel lay down until the morning; then he opened the doors of Jehovah’s house. Samuel was afraid to tell Eʹli of the vision. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But Eʹli called for Samuel: “Samuel, my son!” At this he said: “Here I am.” <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He asked: “What message did he speak to you? Please, do not hide it from me. May God do so to you and add to it if you hide from me a single word of all that he said to you.” <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So Samuel told him everything, and he did not hide anything from him. Eʹli said: “It is Jehovah. Let him do what is good in his eyes.”</p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Samuel continued growing up, and Jehovah himself was with him and did not let any of all his words go unfulfilled.<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> All Israel from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba became aware that Samuel had been confirmed as Jehovah’s prophet. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And Jehovah continued to appear in Shiʹloh, for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiʹloh by the word of Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061113-split3.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 3:3</span></a> That is, the tabernacle.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061113-split3.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 3:19</span></a> Lit., “fall to the earth.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
