<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_6.xhtml">1 - 81</a></p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos21647"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>The sons of Leʹvi were Gerʹshon, Koʹhath, and Me·rarʹi. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The sons of Koʹhath were Amʹram, Izʹhar, Hebʹron, and Uzʹzi·el. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The children<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> of Amʹram were Aaron, Moses, and also Mirʹi·am. And the sons of Aaron were Naʹdab, A·biʹhu, El·e·aʹzar, and Ithʹa·mar. <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> El·e·aʹzar became father to Phinʹe·has; Phinʹe·has became father to Ab·i·shuʹa. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Ab·i·shuʹa became father to Bukʹki; Bukʹki became father to Uzʹzi. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Uzʹzi became father to Zer·a·hiʹah; Zer·a·hiʹah became father to Me·raʹioth. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Me·raʹioth became father to Am·a·riʹah; Am·a·riʹah became father to A·hiʹtub. <span id="page574" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="574" data-before-text="574"></span><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> A·hiʹtub became father to Zaʹdok; Zaʹdok became father to A·himʹa·az. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> A·himʹa·az became father to Az·a·riʹah; Az·a·riʹah became father to Jo·haʹnan. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jo·haʹnan became father to Az·a·riʹah. He served as priest in the house that Solʹo·mon built in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah became father to Am·a·riʹah; Am·a·riʹah became father to A·hiʹtub. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> A·hiʹtub became father to Zaʹdok; Zaʹdok became father to Shalʹlum. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Shalʹlum became father to Hil·kiʹah; Hil·kiʹah became father to Az·a·riʹah. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Az·a·riʹah became father to Se·raiʹah; Se·raiʹah became father to Je·hozʹa·dak. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And Je·hozʹa·dak went into exile when Jehovah took Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The sons of Leʹvi were Gerʹshom,<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> Koʹhath, and Me·rarʹi. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> These are the names of the sons of Gerʹshom: Libʹni and Shimʹe·i. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The sons of Koʹhath were Amʹram, Izʹhar, Hebʹron, and Uzʹzi·el. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi were Mahʹli and Muʹshi.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb">These were the families of the Levites by their forefathers: <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Of Gerʹshom, Libʹni his son, Jaʹhath his son, Zimʹmah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Joʹah his son, Idʹdo his son, Zeʹrah his son, Je·athʹe·rai his son. <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The sons<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> of Koʹhath were Am·minʹa·dab his son, Korʹah his son, Asʹsir his son, <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> El·kaʹnah his son, E·biʹa·saph his son, Asʹsir his son, <span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Taʹhath his son, U·riʹel his son, Uz·ziʹah his son, and Shaʹul his son. <span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The sons of El·kaʹnah were A·maʹsai and A·hiʹmoth. <span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> As for El·kaʹnah, the sons of El·kaʹnah were Zoʹphai his son, Naʹhath his son, <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> E·liʹab his son, Je·roʹham his son, El·kaʹnah his son. <span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The sons of Samuel were Joel the firstborn and A·biʹjah the second. <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> The sons<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> of Me·rarʹi were Mahʹli, Libʹni his son, Shimʹe·i his son, Uzʹzah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Shimʹe·a his son, Hag·giʹah his son, and A·saiʹah his son.</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="pos24121"></span><span id="chapter6_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> These were the ones whom David appointed to direct the singing at the house of Jehovah after the Ark came to rest there. <span id="chapter6_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> They were responsible for the singing at the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Solʹo·mon built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem, and they carried out their service as prescribed for them. <span id="chapter6_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> These are the men who served with their sons: Of the Koʹhath·ites, Heʹman the singer, son of Joel son of Samuel <span id="chapter6_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> son of El·kaʹnah son of Je·roʹham son of Eʹli·el son of Toʹah <span id="chapter6_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> son of Zuph son of El·kaʹnah son of Maʹhath son of A·maʹsai <span id="chapter6_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> son of El·kaʹnah son of Joel son of Az·a·riʹah son of Zeph·a·niʹah <span id="chapter6_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> son of Taʹhath son of Asʹsir son of E·biʹa·saph son of Korʹah <span id="chapter6_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> son of Izʹhar son of Koʹhath son of Leʹvi son of Israel.</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> His brother Aʹsaph stood at his right hand; Aʹsaph was son of Ber·e·chiʹah son of Shimʹe·a <span id="chapter6_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> son of Miʹcha·el son of Ba·a·seʹiah son of Mal·chiʹjah <span id="chapter6_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> son of Ethʹni son of Zeʹrah son of A·daiʹah <span id="chapter6_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> son of Eʹthan son of Zimʹmah son of Shimʹe·i <span id="chapter6_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> son of Jaʹhath son of Gerʹshom son of Leʹvi.</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> The descendants of Me·rarʹi their brothers were at the left hand; there was Eʹthan son of Kishʹi son of Abʹdi son of Malʹluch <span id="chapter6_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> son of Hash·a·biʹah son of Am·a·ziʹah son of Hil·kiʹah <span id="chapter6_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> son of Amʹzi son of Baʹni son of Sheʹmer <span id="chapter6_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> son of Mahʹli son of Muʹshi son of Me·rarʹi son of Leʹvi.</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="page575" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="575" data-before-text="575"></span><span id="pos25545"></span><span id="chapter6_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Their brothers the Levites were appointed<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> for all the service of the tabernacle, the house of the true God. <span id="chapter6_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Aaron and his sons made the sacrifices smoke on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense, performing the duties connected with the most holy things, to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of the true God had commanded. <span id="chapter6_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> These were the descendants of Aaron: El·e·aʹzar his son, Phinʹe·has his son, Ab·i·shuʹa his son, <span id="chapter6_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Bukʹki his son, Uzʹzi his son, Zer·a·hiʹah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> Me·raʹioth his son, Am·a·riʹah his son, A·hiʹtub his son, <span id="chapter6_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> Zaʹdok his son, and A·himʹa·az his son.</p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos26219"></span><span id="chapter6_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> These were their settlements by their encampments<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> in their territory: for the descendants of Aaron belonging to the family of the Koʹhath·ites, as the first lot fell to them, <span id="chapter6_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> they gave them Hebʹron in the land of Judah, with its surrounding pastures. <span id="chapter6_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> But the field of the city and its settlements they gave to Caʹleb the son of Je·phunʹneh. <span id="chapter6_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> And to the descendants of Aaron they gave the cities<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> of refuge, Hebʹron, also Libʹnah with its pastures, Jatʹtir, Esh·te·moʹa with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> Hiʹlen with its pastures, Deʹbir with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> Aʹshan with its pastures, and Beth-sheʹmesh with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> and from the tribe of Benjamin, Geʹba with its pastures, Alʹe·meth with its pastures, and Anʹa·thoth with its pastures. All their cities for their families were 13 cities.</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> To the rest of the Koʹhath·ites, there were allotted<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> ten cities, from the family of the tribe, from the half tribe, the half of Ma·nasʹseh.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> To the Gerʹshom·ites by their families they assigned 13 cities from the tribe of Isʹsa·char, the tribe of Ashʹer, the tribe of Naphʹta·li, and the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh in Baʹshan.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63</sup></strong> To the Me·rarʹites by their families they assigned by lot 12 cities from the tribe of Reuʹben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zebʹu·lun.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64</sup></strong> Thus the Israelites gave the Levites these cities with their pastures. <span id="chapter6_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65</sup></strong> Furthermore, they assigned by lot these cities from the tribe of Judah, the tribe of Simʹe·on, and the tribe of Benjamin, which are mentioned by their names.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66</sup></strong> Some of the Koʹhath·ite families had cities from the tribe of Eʹphra·im as their territory. <span id="chapter6_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67</sup></strong> They gave them the cities<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> of refuge, Sheʹchem with its pastures in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, Geʹzer with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68</sup></strong> Jokʹme·am with its pastures, Beth-hoʹron with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69</sup></strong> Aiʹja·lon with its pastures, and Gath-rimʹmon with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70</sup></strong> and from half of the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, Aʹner with its pastures and Bilʹe·am with its pastures, to the rest of the families of the Koʹhath·ites.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71</sup></strong> To the Gerʹshom·ites they assigned from the family of the half tribe of Ma·nasʹseh, Goʹlan in Baʹshan with its pastures and Ashʹta·roth with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse72"></span><strong><sup>72</sup></strong> and from the tribe of Isʹsa·char, Keʹdesh with its pastures, Dabʹe·rath with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse73"></span><strong><sup>73</sup></strong> Raʹmoth with its pastures, and Aʹnem with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse74"></span><strong><sup>74</sup></strong> and from the tribe of Ashʹer, Maʹshal with its pastures, Abʹdon <span id="page576" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="576" data-before-text="576"></span>with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse75"></span><strong><sup>75</sup></strong> Huʹkok with its pastures, and Reʹhob with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse76"></span><strong><sup>76</sup></strong> and from the tribe of Naphʹta·li, Keʹdesh in Galʹi·lee with its pastures, Hamʹmon with its pastures, and Kir·i·a·thaʹim with its pastures.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse77"></span><strong><sup>77</sup></strong> To the rest of the Me·rarʹites they assigned from the tribe of Zebʹu·lun, Rimʹmo·no with its pastures, Taʹbor with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse78"></span><strong><sup>78</sup></strong> and in the region of the Jordan at Jerʹi·cho, to the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reuʹben, they were given Beʹzer in the wilderness with its pastures, Jaʹhaz with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse79"></span><strong><sup>79</sup></strong> Kedʹe·moth with its pastures, and Mephʹa·ath with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse80"></span><strong><sup>80</sup></strong> and from the tribe of Gad, Raʹmoth in Gilʹe·ad with its pastures, Ma·ha·naʹim with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse81"></span><strong><sup>81</sup></strong> Heshʹbon with its pastures, and Jaʹzer with its pastures.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:3</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p285" data-pid="285"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:16</span></a> Also called Gershon in vs. 1.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p286" data-pid="286"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:22</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p287" data-pid="287"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:29</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p288" data-pid="288"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:48</span></a> Lit., “were the ones given.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:54</span></a> Or “walled camps.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:57</span></a> Or possibly, “city,” in agreement with <a href="1001061110-split21.xhtml#pos82876">Jos 21:13</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:61</span></a> Or “given by lot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061117-split6.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:67</span></a> Or possibly, “city,” in agreement with <a href="1001061110-split21.xhtml#pos83704">Jos 21:21</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
