<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">32</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_32.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p292" data-pid="292" class="p292 sb"><span id="pos132872"></span><span id="chapter32"></span><span id="chapter32_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>32</strong> </span>Meanwhile, the people saw that Moses was taking a long time coming down from the mountain. So the people gathered around Aaron and said to him: “Get up, make for us a god who will go ahead of us, because we do not know what has happened to this Moses, the man who led us up out of the land of Egypt.” <span id="chapter32_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At this Aaron said to them: “Take the gold earrings from the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters and bring them to me.” <span id="chapter32_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So all the people began taking off the gold earrings that were in their ears and bringing them to Aaron. <span id="chapter32_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then he took the gold from them, and he formed it with an engraving tool and made it into a statue<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> of a calf. They began to say: “This is your God, O Israel, who led you up out of the land of Egypt.”</p>
<p id="p293" data-pid="293" class="p293 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it. Then Aaron called out: “There is a festival to Jehovah tomorrow.” <span id="chapter32_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So they got up early on the next day and began offering up burnt offerings and presenting communion sacrifices. After that the people sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up to have a good time.</p>
<p id="p294" data-pid="294" class="p294 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Jehovah now said to Moses: “Go, descend, because your people, whom you led up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves. <span id="chapter32_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They have quickly deviated from the way I commanded them to go. They have made for themselves a statue<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> of a calf, and they keep bowing down to it and sacrificing to it and saying, ‘This is your God, O Israel, who led you up out of the land of Egypt.’” <span id="chapter32_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Jehovah went on to say to Moses: “I have seen that this is an obstinate<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> people. <span id="chapter32_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So now let me be, and I will exterminate them in my burning anger, and let me make a great nation from you instead.”</p>
<p id="p295" data-pid="295" class="p295 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Moses appealed to<span id="footnotesource212"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote212">*</a> Jehovah his God and said: “Why, <span id="page157" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="157" data-before-text="157"></span>O Jehovah, should you turn your burning anger against your people after bringing them out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? <span id="chapter32_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Why should the Egyptians say, ‘He had evil intentions when he led them out. He wanted to kill them in the mountains and exterminate them from the surface of the earth’? Turn from your burning anger and reconsider<span id="footnotesource213"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote213">*</a> your decision to bring this calamity on your people. <span id="chapter32_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, to whom you swore by yourself and said: ‘I will multiply your offspring<span id="footnotesource214"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote214">*</a> like the stars of the heavens, and I will give all this land that I have designated to your offspring,<span id="footnotesource215"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote215">*</a> so that they may take it as a permanent possession.’”</p>
<p id="p296" data-pid="296" class="p296 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Jehovah began to reconsider<span id="footnotesource216"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote216">*</a> the calamity that he had spoken of bringing on his people.</p>
<p id="p297" data-pid="297" class="p297 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Moses then turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the Testimony in his hand. The tablets were inscribed on both sides; they were written on the front and on the back. <span id="chapter32_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The tablets were the workmanship of God, and the writing was the writing of God engraved on the tablets. <span id="pos135756"></span><span id="chapter32_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When Joshua began to hear the noise of the people because of their shouting, he said to Moses: “There is the sound of battle in the camp.” <span id="chapter32_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But Moses said:</p>
<p id="p298" data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">“It is not the sound of singing over a victory,<span id="footnotesource217"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote217">*</a></p><p data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">And it is not the sound of wailing over a defeat;</p><p data-pid="298" class="p298 sz">I hear the sound of another kind of singing.”</p>
<p id="p299" data-pid="299" class="p299 sb"><span id="pos136076"></span><span id="chapter32_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> As soon as Moses got near the camp and saw the calf and the dances, his anger began to blaze, and he threw the tablets from his hands and shattered them at the foot of the mountain. <span id="chapter32_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He took the calf that they had made and he burned it with fire and crushed it into powder; then he scattered it on the water and made the Israelites drink it. <span id="chapter32_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And Moses said to Aaron: “What did this people do to you that you have brought a great sin upon them?” <span id="chapter32_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Aaron replied: “Do not be enraged, my lord. You well know that the people are inclined to do evil. <span id="chapter32_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So they said to me, ‘Make for us a god who will go ahead of us, for we do not know what has happened to this Moses, the man who led us up out of the land of Egypt.’ <span id="chapter32_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So I said to them, ‘Whoever has any gold must take it off and give it to me.’ Then I threw it into the fire and out came this calf.”</p>
<p id="p300" data-pid="300" class="p300 sb"><span id="chapter32_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Moses saw that the people were unrestrained, for Aaron had let them go unrestrained, so that they were a disgrace before their opposers. <span id="pos137107"></span><span id="chapter32_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Then Moses took his position in the gate of the camp and said: “Who is on Jehovah’s side? Come to me!” And all the Levites gathered around him. <span id="chapter32_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> He now said to them: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said, ‘Each of you must fasten on his sword and pass through all the camp from gate to gate, killing his brother, his neighbor, and his close companion.’” <span id="chapter32_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The Levites did what Moses said. So about 3,000 men were killed on that day. <span id="chapter32_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Moses said: “Set yourselves apart<span id="footnotesource218"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote218">*</a> for Jehovah today, for each of you has gone against his own son and his own brother; today he will give you a blessing.”</p>
<p id="p301" data-pid="301" class="p301 sb"><span id="page158" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="158" data-before-text="158"></span><span id="chapter32_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> On the very next day, Moses said to the people: “You committed a very great sin, and now I will go up to Jehovah to see if I can make amends for your sin.” <span id="chapter32_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So Moses returned to Jehovah and said: “What a great sin this people has committed! They made themselves a god of gold! <span id="chapter32_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> But now if you are willing, pardon their sin; if not, please wipe me out from your book that you have written.” <span id="chapter32_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> However, Jehovah said to Moses: “Whoever has sinned against me, I will wipe him out of my book. <span id="chapter32_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Go now, lead the people to the place about which I have spoken to you. Look! My angel will go ahead of you, and on the day when I make an accounting, I will bring punishment on them for their sin.” <span id="chapter32_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then Jehovah began plaguing the people because they had made the calf, the one that Aaron had made.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p588" data-pid="588"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:4</span></a> Or “molten statue.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p589" data-pid="589"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:8</span></a> Or “molten statue.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p590" data-pid="590"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:9</span></a> Lit., “stiff-necked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote212"><p id="p591" data-pid="591"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource212">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:11</span></a> Or “softened the face of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote213"><p id="p592" data-pid="592"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource213">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:12</span></a> Or “feel regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote214"><p id="p593" data-pid="593"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource214">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:13</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote215"><p id="p594" data-pid="594"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource215">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:13</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote216"><p id="p595" data-pid="595"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource216">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:14</span></a> Or “felt regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote217"><p id="p596" data-pid="596"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource217">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:18</span></a> Or “a mighty act.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote218"><p id="p597" data-pid="597"><a href="1001061106-split32.xhtml#footnotesource218">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 32:29</span></a> Lit., “Fill your hand.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
