<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 50</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">50</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_50.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p1353" data-pid="1353" class="p1353 sb"><span id="pos214530"></span><span id="chapter50"></span><span id="chapter50_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>50</strong> </span>The word that Jehovah spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chal·deʹans, through Jeremiah the prophet:</p>
<p id="p1354" data-pid="1354" class="p1354 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Declare it among the nations and proclaim it.</p>
<p id="p1355" data-pid="1355" class="p1355 sz">Raise a signal<span id="footnotesource433"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote433">*</a> and proclaim it.</p>
<p id="p1356" data-pid="1356" class="p1356 sz">Do not hide anything!</p>
<p id="p1357" data-pid="1357" class="p1357 sz">Say, ‘Babylon has been captured.</p>
<p id="p1358" data-pid="1358" class="p1358 sz"><span id="page1111" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1111" data-before-text="1111"></span>Bel has been put to shame.</p>
<p id="p1359" data-pid="1359" class="p1359 sz">Merʹo·dach has become terrified.</p>
<p id="p1360" data-pid="1360" class="p1360 sz">Her images have been put to shame.</p>
<p id="p1361" data-pid="1361" class="p1361 sz">Her disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource434"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote434">*</a> have become terrified.’</p>
<p id="p1362" data-pid="1362" class="p1362 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For a nation has come against her from the north.</p>
<p id="p1363" data-pid="1363" class="p1363 sz">It makes her land an object of horror;</p><p data-pid="1363" class="p1363 sz">No one is dwelling in her.</p>
<p id="p1364" data-pid="1364" class="p1364 sz">Both man and beast have taken flight;</p><p data-pid="1364" class="p1364 sz">They have gone away.”</p>
<p id="p1365" data-pid="1365" class="p1365 sb"><span id="chapter50_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “In those days and at that time,” declares Jehovah, “the people of Israel and the people of Judah will come together. They will weep as they walk, and together they will seek Jehovah their God. <span id="chapter50_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They will ask the way to Zion, with their faces turned in that direction, saying, ‘Come and let us join ourselves to Jehovah in an everlasting covenant that will not be forgotten.’ <span id="chapter50_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> My people have become a flock of lost sheep. Their own shepherds caused them to stray. They led them away onto the mountains, roaming from mountain to hill. They have forgotten their resting-place. <span id="chapter50_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> All those finding them have devoured them, and their enemies have said, ‘We are not guilty, because they sinned against Jehovah, against the dwelling place of righteousness and the hope of their forefathers, Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p1366" data-pid="1366" class="p1366 sl"><span id="pos215960"></span><span id="chapter50_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Flee out of the midst of Babylon,</p><p data-pid="1366" class="p1366 sz">Go out of the land of the Chal·deʹans,</p><p data-pid="1366" class="p1366 sz">And be like the leading animals before the flock.</p>
<p id="p1367" data-pid="1367" class="p1367 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For here I am raising up and bringing against Babylon</p><p data-pid="1367" class="p1367 sz">An assembly of great nations from the land of the north.</p>
<p id="p1368" data-pid="1368" class="p1368 sz">They will come against her in battle formation;</p><p data-pid="1368" class="p1368 sz">From there she will be captured.</p>
<p id="p1369" data-pid="1369" class="p1369 sz">Their arrows are like those of a warrior</p><p data-pid="1369" class="p1369 sz">Causing bereavement of children;</p><p data-pid="1369" class="p1369 sz">They do not come back without results.</p>
<p id="p1370" data-pid="1370" class="p1370 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Chal·deʹa will become a spoil.</p>
<p id="p1371" data-pid="1371" class="p1371 sz">All those taking spoil from her will be fully satisfied,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1372" data-pid="1372" class="p1372 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “For you kept rejoicing, you kept exulting</p><p data-pid="1372" class="p1372 sz">When pillaging my own inheritance.</p>
<p id="p1373" data-pid="1373" class="p1373 sz">For you kept pawing like a heifer in the grass,</p><p data-pid="1373" class="p1373 sz">And you kept neighing like stallions.</p>
<p id="p1374" data-pid="1374" class="p1374 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Your mother has been put to shame.</p>
<p id="p1375" data-pid="1375" class="p1375 sz">She who gave birth to you has been disappointed.</p>
<p id="p1376" data-pid="1376" class="p1376 sz">Look! She is the least of the nations,</p><p data-pid="1376" class="p1376 sz">A waterless wilderness and a desert.</p>
<p id="p1377" data-pid="1377" class="p1377 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Because of the indignation of Jehovah she will not be inhabited;</p><p data-pid="1377" class="p1377 sz">She will become utterly desolate.</p>
<p id="p1378" data-pid="1378" class="p1378 sz">Anyone passing by Babylon will stare in horror</p><p data-pid="1378" class="p1378 sz">And whistle because of all her plagues.</p>
<p id="p1379" data-pid="1379" class="p1379 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Come against Babylon in battle formation on every side,</p><p data-pid="1379" class="p1379 sz">All you who are bending<span id="footnotesource435"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote435">*</a> the bow.</p>
<p id="p1380" data-pid="1380" class="p1380 sz">Shoot at her, spare no arrow,</p><p data-pid="1380" class="p1380 sz"><span id="page1112" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1112" data-before-text="1112"></span>For it is against Jehovah that she has sinned.</p>
<p id="p1381" data-pid="1381" class="p1381 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Shout a war cry against her on every side.</p>
<p id="p1382" data-pid="1382" class="p1382 sz">She has surrendered.<span id="footnotesource436"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote436">*</a></p>
<p id="p1383" data-pid="1383" class="p1383 sz">Her pillars have fallen, her walls are torn down,</p><p data-pid="1383" class="p1383 sz">For it is the vengeance of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1384" data-pid="1384" class="p1384 sz">Take your vengeance on her.</p>
<p id="p1385" data-pid="1385" class="p1385 sz">Do to her just as she has done.</p>
<p id="p1386" data-pid="1386" class="p1386 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Cut off the sower from Babylon</p><p data-pid="1386" class="p1386 sz">And the one handling the sickle in harvesttime.</p>
<p id="p1387" data-pid="1387" class="p1387 sz">Because of the cruel sword, each will return to his own people,</p><p data-pid="1387" class="p1387 sz">Each one will flee to his own land.</p>
<p id="p1388" data-pid="1388" class="p1388 sb"><span id="pos217709"></span><span id="chapter50_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “The people of Israel are scattered sheep. Lions have dispersed them. First the king of As·syrʹi·a devoured them; then King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource437"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote437">*</a> of Babylon gnawed on their bones. <span id="chapter50_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Here I will deal with the king of Babylon and with his land in the same way that I dealt with the king of As·syrʹi·a. <span id="chapter50_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And I will bring Israel back to his pasture, and he will graze on Carʹmel and on Baʹshan, and on the mountains of Eʹphra·im and of Gilʹe·ad he<span id="footnotesource438"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote438">*</a> will be satisfied.’”</p>
<p id="p1389" data-pid="1389" class="p1389 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “In those days and at that time,” declares Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="1389" class="p1389 sz">“Israel’s guilt will be searched for,</p><p data-pid="1389" class="p1389 sz">But there will be none,</p><p data-pid="1389" class="p1389 sz">And the sins of Judah will not be found,</p><p data-pid="1389" class="p1389 sz">For I will forgive those whom I let remain.”</p>
<p id="p1390" data-pid="1390" class="p1390 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Go up against the land of Mer·a·thaʹim and against the inhabitants of Peʹkod.</p>
<p id="p1391" data-pid="1391" class="p1391 sz">Let them be massacred and completely destroyed,”<span id="footnotesource439"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote439">*</a> declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1392" data-pid="1392" class="p1392 sz">“Do all that I have commanded you.</p>
<p id="p1393" data-pid="1393" class="p1393 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> There is the sound of war in the land,</p><p data-pid="1393" class="p1393 sz">A great catastrophe.</p>
<p id="p1394" data-pid="1394" class="p1394 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> How the forge hammer of all the earth has been cut down and broken!</p>
<p id="p1395" data-pid="1395" class="p1395 sz">How Babylon has become an object of horror among the nations!</p>
<p id="p1396" data-pid="1396" class="p1396 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> I have laid a snare for you, and you have been caught, O Babylon,</p><p data-pid="1396" class="p1396 sz">And you did not know it.</p>
<p id="p1397" data-pid="1397" class="p1397 sz">You were found and captured,</p><p data-pid="1397" class="p1397 sz">For it was Jehovah whom you opposed.</p>
<p id="p1398" data-pid="1398" class="p1398 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Jehovah has opened his storehouse,</p><p data-pid="1398" class="p1398 sz">And he brings out the weapons of his indignation.</p>
<p id="p1399" data-pid="1399" class="p1399 sz">For the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of armies, has a work</p><p data-pid="1399" class="p1399 sz">In the land of the Chal·deʹans.</p>
<p id="p1400" data-pid="1400" class="p1400 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Come against her from distant places.</p>
<p id="p1401" data-pid="1401" class="p1401 sz">Open up her granaries.</p>
<p id="p1402" data-pid="1402" class="p1402 sz">Pile her up like heaps of grain.</p>
<p id="p1403" data-pid="1403" class="p1403 sz">Destroy her completely.<span id="footnotesource440"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote440">*</a></p>
<p id="p1404" data-pid="1404" class="p1404 sz">May she have no one left.</p>
<p id="p1405" data-pid="1405" class="p1405 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Massacre all her young bulls;</p><p data-pid="1405" class="p1405 sz">Let them go down to the slaughter.</p>
<p id="p1406" data-pid="1406" class="p1406 sz">Woe to them, for their day has come,</p><p data-pid="1406" class="p1406 sz">Their time of reckoning!</p>
<p id="p1407" data-pid="1407" class="p1407 sl"><span id="page1113" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1113" data-before-text="1113"></span><span id="chapter50_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> There is the sound of those fleeing,</p><p data-pid="1407" class="p1407 sz">Those escaping from the land of Babylon,</p><p data-pid="1407" class="p1407 sz">To declare in Zion the vengeance of Jehovah our God,</p><p data-pid="1407" class="p1407 sz">The vengeance for his temple.</p>
<p id="p1408" data-pid="1408" class="p1408 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Summon archers against Babylon,</p><p data-pid="1408" class="p1408 sz">All who are bending<span id="footnotesource441"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote441">*</a> the bow.</p>
<p id="p1409" data-pid="1409" class="p1409 sz">Camp all around her; let no one escape.</p>
<p id="p1410" data-pid="1410" class="p1410 sz">Repay her according to her activity.</p>
<p id="p1411" data-pid="1411" class="p1411 sz">Do to her just as she has done.</p>
<p id="p1412" data-pid="1412" class="p1412 sz">For she has acted arrogantly against Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="1412" class="p1412 sz">Against the Holy One of Israel.</p>
<p id="p1413" data-pid="1413" class="p1413 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So her young men will fall in her public squares,</p><p data-pid="1413" class="p1413 sz">And all her soldiers will perish<span id="footnotesource442"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote442">*</a> in that day,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1414" data-pid="1414" class="p1414 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “Look! I am against you, O defiant one,” declares the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of armies,</p><p data-pid="1414" class="p1414 sz">“For your day must come, the time that I will call you to account.</p>
<p id="p1415" data-pid="1415" class="p1415 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> You, O defiant one, will stumble and fall,</p><p data-pid="1415" class="p1415 sz">With no one to raise you up.</p>
<p id="p1416" data-pid="1416" class="p1416 sz">And I will set your cities on fire,</p><p data-pid="1416" class="p1416 sz">And it will consume everything around you.”</p>
<p id="p1417" data-pid="1417" class="p1417 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p1418" data-pid="1418" class="p1418 sz">“The people of Israel and Judah are oppressed,</p><p data-pid="1418" class="p1418 sz">And all those taking them captive have held onto them.</p>
<p id="p1419" data-pid="1419" class="p1419 sz">They have refused to let them go.</p>
<p id="p1420" data-pid="1420" class="p1420 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But their Repurchaser is strong.</p>
<p id="p1421" data-pid="1421" class="p1421 sz">Jehovah of armies is his name.</p>
<p id="p1422" data-pid="1422" class="p1422 sz">He will surely plead their legal case,</p><p data-pid="1422" class="p1422 sz">In order to give rest to the land</p><p data-pid="1422" class="p1422 sz">And to bring agitation to the inhabitants of Babylon.”</p>
<p id="p1423" data-pid="1423" class="p1423 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “There is a sword against the Chal·deʹans,” declares Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="1423" class="p1423 sz">“Against the inhabitants of Babylon and against her princes and against her wise ones.</p>
<p id="p1424" data-pid="1424" class="p1424 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> There is a sword against the empty talkers,<span id="footnotesource443"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote443">*</a> and they will act foolishly.</p>
<p id="p1425" data-pid="1425" class="p1425 sz">There is a sword against her warriors, and they will become terrified.</p>
<p id="p1426" data-pid="1426" class="p1426 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> There is a sword against their horses and their war chariots,</p><p data-pid="1426" class="p1426 sz">And against all the mixed populations in her midst,</p><p data-pid="1426" class="p1426 sz">And they will become like women.</p>
<p id="p1427" data-pid="1427" class="p1427 sz">There is a sword against her treasures, and they will be plundered.</p>
<p id="p1428" data-pid="1428" class="p1428 sl"><span id="pos221416"></span><span id="chapter50_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> There is a devastation on her waters, and they will be dried up.</p>
<p id="p1429" data-pid="1429" class="p1429 sz">For it is a land of graven images,</p><p data-pid="1429" class="p1429 sz">And because of their frightful visions they keep acting with madness.</p>
<p id="p1430" data-pid="1430" class="p1430 sl"><span id="pos221600"></span><span id="chapter50_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Therefore, the desert creatures will dwell with the howling animals,</p><p data-pid="1430" class="p1430 sz">And in her the ostriches will dwell.</p>
<p id="p1431" data-pid="1431" class="p1431 sz">She will never again be inhabited,</p><p data-pid="1431" class="p1431 sz"><span id="page1114" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1114" data-before-text="1114"></span>Nor will she be a place of residence throughout all generations.”</p>
<p id="p1432" data-pid="1432" class="p1432 sb"><span id="chapter50_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> “Just as with God’s overthrow of Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah and of their neighboring towns,” declares Jehovah, “no one will dwell there, and no man will settle there.</p>
<p id="p1433" data-pid="1433" class="p1433 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Look! A people is coming in from the north;</p><p data-pid="1433" class="p1433 sz">A great nation and grand kings will be raised up</p><p data-pid="1433" class="p1433 sz">From the remotest parts of the earth.</p>
<p id="p1434" data-pid="1434" class="p1434 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Bow and javelin they wield.</p>
<p id="p1435" data-pid="1435" class="p1435 sz">They are cruel and will show no mercy.</p>
<p id="p1436" data-pid="1436" class="p1436 sz">Their sound is like the roaring sea,</p><p data-pid="1436" class="p1436 sz">As they ride on their horses.</p>
<p id="p1437" data-pid="1437" class="p1437 sz">Like one man, they line up in battle formation against you, O daughter of Babylon.</p>
<p id="p1438" data-pid="1438" class="p1438 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> The king of Babylon has heard the report about them,</p><p data-pid="1438" class="p1438 sz">And his hands drop down.</p>
<p id="p1439" data-pid="1439" class="p1439 sz">Anguish seizes him,</p><p data-pid="1439" class="p1439 sz">Pain like that of a woman giving birth.</p>
<p id="p1440" data-pid="1440" class="p1440 sb"><span id="chapter50_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> “Look! Someone will come up against the secure pastures like a lion from the dense thickets along the Jordan, but in a moment I will make them run away from her. And I will appoint over her the chosen one. For who is like me, and who will challenge me? What shepherd can stand before me? <span id="chapter50_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Therefore hear, O men, the decision<span id="footnotesource444"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote444">*</a> that Jehovah has made against Babylon and what he has thought out against the land of the Chal·deʹans.</p>
<p id="p1441" data-pid="1441" class="p1441 sz">Surely the little ones of the flock will be dragged away.</p>
<p id="p1442" data-pid="1442" class="p1442 sz">He will make their dwelling place desolate because of them.</p>
<p id="p1443" data-pid="1443" class="p1443 sl"><span id="chapter50_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> At the sound of Babylon’s capture, the earth will quake,</p><p data-pid="1443" class="p1443 sz">And an outcry will be heard among the nations.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote433"><p id="p2010" data-pid="2010"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource433">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:2</span></a> Or “signal pole.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote434"><p id="p2011" data-pid="2011"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource434">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:2</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote435"><p id="p2012" data-pid="2012"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource435">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:14</span></a> Lit., “treading.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote436"><p id="p2013" data-pid="2013"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource436">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:15</span></a> Lit., “given her hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote437"><p id="p2014" data-pid="2014"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource437">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:17</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote438"><p id="p2015" data-pid="2015"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource438">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:19</span></a> Or “his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote439"><p id="p2016" data-pid="2016"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource439">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:21</span></a> Or “and devote them to destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote440"><p id="p2017" data-pid="2017"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource440">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:26</span></a> Or “Devote her to destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote441"><p id="p2018" data-pid="2018"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource441">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:29</span></a> Lit., “treading.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote442"><p id="p2019" data-pid="2019"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource442">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:30</span></a> Lit., “be silenced.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote443"><p id="p2020" data-pid="2020"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource443">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:36</span></a> Or “the false prophets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote444"><p id="p2021" data-pid="2021"><a href="1001061128-split50.xhtml#footnotesource444">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 50:45</span></a> Or “counsel.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
