<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_10.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="pos46942"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>“At that time Jehovah said to me, ‘Carve out for yourself two tablets of stone like the first ones, and come up to me on the mountain; also you must make for yourself an ark<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> of wood. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And I will write on the tablets the words that appeared on the first tablets, which you shattered, and you should place them in the ark.’ <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So I made an ark of acacia wood and carved out two tablets of stone like the first ones and went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then he wrote on the tablets the words he had written before, the Ten Commandments,<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> which Jehovah had spoken to you on the mountain out of the fire on the day of the assembly;<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> and Jehovah gave them to me. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then I turned and went down the mountain and placed the tablets in the ark that I had made, where they remain, just as Jehovah had commanded me.</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “The Israelites then departed from Be·erʹoth Benʹe-jaʹa·kan for Mo·seʹrah. There Aaron died and was buried, and his son El·e·aʹzar began to serve as priest in his place. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> From there they departed for Gudʹgo·dah, and from Gudʹgo·dah for Jotʹba·thah, a land flowing with streams of water.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a></p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “At that time Jehovah set apart the tribe of Leʹvi to carry the ark of Jehovah’s covenant, to stand before Jehovah in order to minister to him, and to bless in his name, as they do to this day. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> That is why Leʹvi has not been given a share or an inheritance with his brothers. Jehovah is his inheritance, just as Jehovah your God had said to him. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> I myself stayed on the mountain as I did the first time, 40 days and 40 nights, and Jehovah listened to me on that occasion also. Jehovah did not want to destroy you. <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Jehovah said to me, ‘Go ahead of the people, and prepare to depart, so that they may go in and take possession of the land that I have sworn to their forefathers to give to them.’</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="pos48809"></span><span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> “Now, O Israel, what is Jehovah your God asking of you? Only this: to fear Jehovah your God, to walk in all his ways, to love him, to serve Jehovah your God with all your heart and all your soul,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and to keep the commandments and statutes of Jehovah that I am commanding you today for your own good. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Look, to Jehovah your God belong the heavens, even the <span id="page290" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="290" data-before-text="290"></span>heavens of the heavens,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> and the earth with all that is in it. <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But only to your forefathers did Jehovah draw close and express his love, and he has chosen you, their offspring, out of all the peoples, as you are today. <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> You must now cleanse<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> your hearts and stop being so stubborn.<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For Jehovah your God is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the God great, mighty, and awe-inspiring, who treats none with partiality and does not accept a bribe. <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He executes justice for the fatherless child<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> and the widow and loves the foreign resident, giving him food and clothing. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You too must love the foreign resident, for you became foreign residents in the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Jehovah your God you should fear, him you should serve, to him you should cling, and by his name you should swear. <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He is the One you are to praise. He is your God, who has done all these great and awe-inspiring things for you that your own eyes have seen. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> With 70 people<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> your forefathers went down into Egypt, and now Jehovah your God has made you as numerous as the stars of the heavens.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p447" data-pid="447"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:1</span></a> Or “chest.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:4</span></a> Lit., “the Ten Words.” Also known as the Decalogue.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:4</span></a> Or “congregation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:7</span></a> Or “wadis of water.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:12</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:14</span></a> Or “the highest heavens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:16</span></a> Lit., “circumcise the foreskin of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:16</span></a> Lit., “and do not harden your neck any longer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:18</span></a> Or “the orphan.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p456" data-pid="456"><a href="1001061109-split10.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 10:22</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
