<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_11.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p47" data-pid="47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos27021"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>I wish you would put up with me in a little unreasonableness. But, in fact, you are putting up with me! <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> for I personally promised you in marriage to one husband that I might present you as a chaste<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> virgin to the Christ. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But I am afraid that somehow, as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning, your minds might be corrupted away from the sincerity and the chastity<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> that are due the Christ. <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For as it is, if someone comes and preaches a Jesus other than the one we preached, or you receive a spirit other than what you received, or good news other than what you accepted, you easily put up with him. <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For I consider that I have not proved inferior to your superfine apostles in a single thing. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But even if I am unskilled in speech, I certainly am not in knowledge; indeed we made it clear to you in every way and in everything.</p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself that you might be exalted, because I gladly declared the good news of God to you without cost? <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Other congregations I deprived<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> by accepting provisions<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> in order to minister to you. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Yet, when I was present with you and I fell into need, I did not become a burden on anyone, for the brothers who came from Mac·e·doʹni·a abundantly supplied my needs. Yes, in every way I kept myself from becoming a burden to you and will continue to do so. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As surely as the truth of Christ is in me, I will not stop this boasting in the regions of A·chaʹia. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For what reason? Because I do not love you? God knows I do.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But what I am doing I will continue to do, in order to eliminate the pretext of those who are wanting a basis<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> for being found equal to us in the things<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> about which they boast. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And no wonder, for Satan himself keeps disguising himself as an angel of light. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> It is therefore nothing extraordinary if his <span id="page1554" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1554" data-before-text="1554"></span>ministers also keep disguising themselves as ministers of righteousness. But their end will be according to their works.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos29157"></span><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> I say again: Let no one think I am unreasonable. But even if you do, then accept me as an unreasonable person, so that I too may boast a little. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> What I now say is, not as following the Lord’s example, but as an unreasonable person would, with boastful self-confidence. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Since many are boasting according to the flesh,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> I too will boast. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Since you are so “reasonable,” you gladly put up with the unreasonable ones. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> In fact, you put up with whoever enslaves you, whoever devours your possessions, whoever grabs what you have, whoever exalts himself over you, and whoever strikes you in the face.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I say this to our dishonor, since it may seem that we have acted in weakness.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb">But if others act boldly—I am talking unreasonably—I too act boldly. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Are they Hebrews? I am one also. Are they Israelites? I am one also. Are they Abraham’s offspring?<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> I am also. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Are they ministers of Christ? I reply like a madman, I am more outstandingly one: I have done more work, been imprisoned more often, suffered countless beatings, and experienced many near-deaths. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Five times I received 40 strokes less one from the Jews, <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I experienced shipwreck, a night and a day I have spent in the open sea; <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> in journeys often, in dangers from rivers, in dangers from robbers, in dangers from my own people, in dangers from the nations, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the wilderness, in dangers at sea, in dangers among false brothers, <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> in labor and toil, in sleepless nights often, in hunger and thirst, frequently without food, in cold and lacking clothing.<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a></p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Besides those things of an external kind, there is what rushes in on me from day to day:<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> the anxiety for all the congregations. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I am not incensed?</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness. <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, the One who is to be praised forever, knows I am not lying. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> In Damascus the governor under A·reʹtas the king was guarding the city of the Dam·a·scenesʹ to seize me, <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> but I was lowered in a basket<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> through a window in the city wall, and I escaped his hands.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:2</span></a> Lit., “God’s zeal.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:2</span></a> Or “pure.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p135" data-pid="135"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:3</span></a> Or “purity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p136" data-pid="136"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:8</span></a> Lit., “robbed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p137" data-pid="137"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:8</span></a> Or “support.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p138" data-pid="138"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:12</span></a> Or “pretext.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p139" data-pid="139"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:12</span></a> Or “the office.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p140" data-pid="140"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:18</span></a> That is, on human grounds.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p141" data-pid="141"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:22</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p142" data-pid="142"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:27</span></a> Lit., “and in nakedness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p143" data-pid="143"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:28</span></a> Or “the daily pressure on me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p144" data-pid="144"><a href="1001061151-split11.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 11:33</span></a> Or “wicker basket.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
