<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_2.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos5980"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>And on the third day a marriage feast took place in Caʹna of Galʹi·lee, and the mother of Jesus was there. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Jesus and his disciples were also invited to the marriage feast.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When the wine ran short, the mother of Jesus said to him: “They have no wine.” <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But Jesus said to her: “Woman, why is that of concern to me and to you?<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> My hour has not yet come.” <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> His mother said to those serving: “Do whatever he tells you.” <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now there were six stone water jars sitting there as required by the purification rules of the Jews, each able to hold two or three liquid measures.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “Fill the jars with water.” So they filled them to the brim. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “Now draw some out and take it to the director of the feast.” So they took it. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When the director of the feast tasted the water that had now been turned into wine, not knowing where it came from (although the servants who had drawn out the water knew), the director of the feast called the bridegroom <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and said to him: “Everyone <span id="page1428" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1428" data-before-text="1428"></span>else puts out the fine wine first, and when people are intoxicated, the inferior. You have saved the fine wine until now.” <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jesus did this in Caʹna of Galʹi·lee as the beginning of his signs, and he made his glory manifest, and his disciples put their faith in him.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> After this he and his mother and his brothers and his disciples went down to Ca·perʹna·um, but they did not stay there many days.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos7428"></span><span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He found in the temple those selling cattle and sheep and doves, and the money brokers in their seats. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So after making a whip of ropes, he drove all those with the sheep and cattle out of the temple, and he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And he said to those selling the doves: “Take these things away from here! Stop making the house of my Father a house of commerce!”<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> His disciples recalled that it is written: “The zeal for your house will consume me.”</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Therefore, in response the Jews said to him: “What sign can you show us, since you are doing these things?” <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jesus replied to them: “Tear down this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The Jews then said: “This temple was built in 46 years, and will you raise it up in three days?” <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But he was talking about the temple of his body. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When, though, he was raised up from the dead, his disciples recalled that he used to say this, and they believed the scripture and what Jesus had spoken.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos8572"></span><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> However, when he was in Jerusalem at the festival of the Passover, many people put their faith in his name when they saw the signs that he was performing. <span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But Jesus would not entrust himself to them because he knew them all <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> and because he did not need to have anyone bear witness about man, for he knew what was in man.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p160" data-pid="160"><a href="1001061147-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 2:4</span></a> Lit., “What to me and to you, woman?” This is an idiom indicating objection. The use of “woman” does not denote disrespect.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p161" data-pid="161"><a href="1001061147-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 2:6</span></a> Likely the liquid measure was the bath that equaled 22 L (5.81 gal). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p162" data-pid="162"><a href="1001061147-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 2:16</span></a> Or “a marketplace; a business.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
