<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_12.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="pos40408"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>Soon after the kingship of Re·ho·boʹam was firmly established and he had become strong, he abandoned the Law of Jehovah, and also all Israel with him. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In the fifth year of King Re·ho·boʹam, King Shiʹshak of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, for they had behaved unfaithfully toward Jehovah. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He had 1,200 chariots, 60,000 horsemen, and countless troops who came with him from Egypt—Libʹy·ans, Sukʹki·im, and E·thi·oʹpi·ans. <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He captured the fortified cities of Judah and finally reached Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> She·maiʹah the prophet came to Re·ho·boʹam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shiʹshak, and he said to them: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘You have abandoned me, so I have also abandoned you to the hand of Shiʹshak.’” <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At that the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said: “Jehovah is righteous.” <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When Jehovah saw that they had humbled themselves, the word of Jehovah came to She·maiʹah, saying: “They have humbled themselves. I will not destroy them, and in a little while I will rescue them. I will not pour out my wrath on Jerusalem through Shiʹshak. <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But they will become his servants, so that they will know the difference <span id="page620" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="620" data-before-text="620"></span>between serving me and serving the kings<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> of other lands.”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So King Shiʹshak of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. He took the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king’s house.<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> He took everything, including the gold shields that Solʹo·mon had made. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So King Re·ho·boʹam made copper shields to replace them, and he entrusted them to the chiefs of the guard,<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> who guarded the entrance of the king’s house. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Whenever the king came to the house of Jehovah, the guards would come in and carry them, and then they would return them to the guard chamber. <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Because the king humbled himself, Jehovah’s anger turned away from him, and he did not destroy them completely. Moreover, there were some good things found in Judah.</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="pos42380"></span><span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> King Re·ho·boʹam strengthened his position in Jerusalem and continued to reign; Re·ho·boʹam was 41 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 17 years in Jerusalem, the city that Jehovah had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel as the place to put his name. The name of the king’s mother was Naʹa·mah the Amʹmon·it·ess. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But he did what was bad, for he had not resolved in his heart to search for Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> As for Re·ho·boʹam’s history, from beginning to end, is it not written among the words of She·maiʹah the prophet and of Idʹdo the visionary in the genealogical record? And there were constant wars between Re·ho·boʹam and Jer·o·boʹam. <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then Re·ho·boʹam was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in the City of David; and his son A·biʹjah became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061118-split12.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 12:8</span></a> Lit., “kingdoms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061118-split12.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 12:9</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061118-split12.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 12:10</span></a> Lit., “runners.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
