<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 40</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">40</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_40.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p1090" data-pid="1090" class="p1090 sb"><span id="pos173684"></span><span id="chapter40"></span><span id="chapter40_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>40</strong> </span>The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah after Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard let him go free from Raʹmah. He had taken him there bound with handcuffs, and he was among all the exiles of Jerusalem and of Judah who were being deported to Babylon. <span id="chapter40_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the chief of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him: “Jehovah your God foretold this calamity against this place, <span id="chapter40_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and Jehovah has brought it <span id="page1096" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1096" data-before-text="1096"></span>about just as he said, because you people sinned against Jehovah and did not obey his voice. That is why this has happened to you. <span id="chapter40_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now I am releasing you today from the handcuffs that were on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will look after you. But if you do not want to come with me to Babylon, do not come. See! The entire land is before you. Go wherever you choose.”</p>
<p id="p1091" data-pid="1091" class="p1091 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> While Jeremiah still had not turned back, Neb·uʹzar·adʹan said: “Return to Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed over the cities of Judah, and stay with him among the people; or go wherever you choose.”</p>
<p id="p1092" data-pid="1092" class="p1092 sb">The chief of the guard then gave him a food allowance and a gift and let him go. <span id="chapter40_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Jeremiah went to Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam at Mizʹpah and stayed with him among the people who were left in the land.</p>
<p id="p1093" data-pid="1093" class="p1093 sb"><span id="pos175003"></span><span id="chapter40_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> In time all the army chiefs who were in the field with their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam over the land and that he had appointed him over the men, women, and children from the poor people of the land who had not been deported to Babylon. <span id="chapter40_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So they came to Ged·a·liʹah at Mizʹpah. They were Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah, Jo·haʹnan and Jonʹa·than the sons of Ka·reʹah, Se·raiʹah the son of Tan·huʹmeth, the sons of Eʹphai the Ne·tophʹa·thite, and Jez·a·niʹah the son of the Ma·acʹa·thite, together with their men. <span id="chapter40_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan swore an oath to them and to their men, saying: “Do not be afraid of serving the Chal·deʹans. Live in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well with you. <span id="chapter40_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> As for me, I will stay in Mizʹpah to represent you to<span id="footnotesource360"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote360">*</a> the Chal·deʹans who come to us. But you should gather wine, summer fruits, and oil and put them in your storage containers and settle in the cities that you have taken over.”</p>
<p id="p1094" data-pid="1094" class="p1094 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And all the Jews who were in Moʹab, Amʹmon, and Eʹdom, as well as those who were in all the other lands, also heard that the king of Babylon had let a remnant stay in Judah and that he had appointed over them Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam the son of Shaʹphan. <span id="chapter40_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So all the Jews began returning from all the places to which they had been dispersed, and they came into the land of Judah, to Ged·a·liʹah at Mizʹpah. And they gathered wine and summer fruits in very great quantity.</p>
<p id="p1095" data-pid="1095" class="p1095 sb"><span id="pos176542"></span><span id="chapter40_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah and all the army chiefs who were in the field came to Ged·a·liʹah at Mizʹpah. <span id="chapter40_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They said to him: “Do you not know that Baʹa·lis, the king of the Amʹmon·ites, has sent Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah to kill you?”<span id="footnotesource361"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote361">*</a> But Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam did not believe them.</p>
<p id="p1096" data-pid="1096" class="p1096 sb"><span id="chapter40_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah secretly told Ged·a·liʹah in Mizʹpah: “I want to go and strike down Ishʹma·el the son of Neth·a·niʹah, and no one will know. Why should he kill you,<span id="footnotesource362"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote362">*</a> and why should all the people of Judah who have gathered to you be scattered and the remnant of Judah perish?” <span id="chapter40_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But Ged·a·liʹah the son of A·hiʹkam said to Jo·haʹnan the son of Ka·reʹah: “Do not do this, for what you are saying concerning Ishʹma·el is a lie.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote360"><p id="p1937" data-pid="1937"><a href="1001061128-split40.xhtml#footnotesource360">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 40:10</span></a> Lit., “to stand before.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote361"><p id="p1938" data-pid="1938"><a href="1001061128-split40.xhtml#footnotesource361">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 40:14</span></a> Or “to strike your soul?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote362"><p id="p1939" data-pid="1939"><a href="1001061128-split40.xhtml#footnotesource362">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 40:15</span></a> Or “strike your soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
