<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_13.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="pos34917"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13</strong> </span>This is the third time I am coming to you. “On the testimony<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> of two or three witnesses every matter must be established.” <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Although I am absent now, it is as if I were present for the second time, and I give my warning in advance to those who sinned previously and <span id="page1556" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1556" data-before-text="1556"></span>to all the rest, that if ever I come again I will not spare them, <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> since you are seeking proof that Christ, who is not weak toward you but strong among you, is really speaking through me. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For, indeed, he was executed on the stake because of weakness, but he is alive because of God’s power. True, we also are weak with him, but we will live together with him because of God’s power toward you.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="pos35601"></span><span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Keep testing whether you are in the faith; keep proving what you yourselves are. Or do you not recognize that Jesus Christ is in union with you? Unless you are disapproved. <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> I truly hope you will recognize that we are not disapproved.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now we pray to God that you may do nothing wrong, not that we may appear approved, but that you may do what is fine, even if we may appear disapproved. <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For we can do nothing against the truth, but only for the truth. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> We certainly rejoice whenever we are weak but you are powerful. And this is what we are praying for, your being readjusted. <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> That is why I write these things while absent, so that when I am present, I may not have to be severe in using the authority that the Lord gave me, to build up and not to tear down.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="pos36386"></span><span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Finally, brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted, to think in agreement, to live peaceably; and the God of love and of peace will be with you. <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Greet one another with a holy kiss. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> All the holy ones send you their greetings.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the sharing in the holy spirit be with all of you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p151" data-pid="151"><a href="1001061151-split13.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 13:1</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
