<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">29</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_29.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p268" data-pid="268" class="p268 sb"><span id="pos118751"></span><span id="chapter29"></span><span id="chapter29_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>29</strong> </span>“This is what you are to do to sanctify them to serve as priests to me: Take a young bull, two unblemished rams, <span id="chapter29_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> unleavened bread, unleavened ring-shaped loaves mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil. You are to make them with fine wheat flour <span id="chapter29_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and put them in a basket and present them in the basket, along with the bull and the two rams.</p>
<p id="p269" data-pid="269" class="p269 sb"><span id="page152" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="152" data-before-text="152"></span><span id="chapter29_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “You will present Aaron and his sons at the entrance of the tent of meeting and wash them with water. <span id="chapter29_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then you are to take the garments and clothe Aaron with the robe, the sleeveless coat of the ephʹod, the ephʹod, and the breastpiece, and you are to tie the woven belt<span id="footnotesource173"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote173">*</a> of the ephʹod securely around his waist. <span id="chapter29_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You will put the turban on his head and put the holy sign of dedication<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> on the turban; <span id="chapter29_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him.</p>
<p id="p270" data-pid="270" class="p270 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “Then bring his sons forward and clothe them with the robes <span id="chapter29_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and wrap the sashes around them, Aaron as well as his sons, and put on their headgear; and the priesthood will become theirs as a permanent statute. This is how you should install Aaron and his sons to serve as priests.<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a></p>
<p id="p271" data-pid="271" class="p271 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “You are now to present the bull before the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons will lay their hands on the bull’s head. <span id="chapter29_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Slaughter the bull before Jehovah, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter29_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Take some of the bull’s blood on your finger and put it on the horns of the altar, and pour out all the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. <span id="chapter29_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then take all the fat that covers the intestines, the appendage on the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and burn them so that they smoke on the altar. <span id="chapter29_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But the bull’s flesh and its skin and its dung, you will burn with fire outside the camp. It is a sin offering.</p>
<p id="p272" data-pid="272" class="p272 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “Then take the one ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head. <span id="chapter29_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Slaughter the ram and take its blood and sprinkle it on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter29_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its intestines and its shanks, and arrange the pieces together with its head. <span id="chapter29_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> You must burn the entire ram, making it smoke on the altar. It is a burnt offering to Jehovah, a pleasing<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> aroma. It is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p273" data-pid="273" class="p273 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Next you are to take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head. <span id="chapter29_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Slaughter the ram and take some of its blood and put it on Aaron’s right earlobe and on his sons’ right earlobe and on the thumb of their right hand and the big toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar. <span id="chapter29_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil and spatter it on Aaron and his garments and on his sons and his sons’ garments, so that he and his garments and his sons and their garments may be holy.</p>
<p id="p274" data-pid="274" class="p274 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “Then take from the ram the fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the intestines, the appendage of the liver, the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and the right leg, for it is a ram of installation. <span id="chapter29_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Take also a round loaf of bread and a ring-shaped loaf of oiled bread and a wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Jehovah. <span id="chapter29_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> You must place them all in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and you are to wave them back and forth as a wave offering before Jehovah. <span id="chapter29_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then you will take them out of their hands and burn them on the altar, on top of the burnt offering, as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> <span id="page153" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="153" data-before-text="153"></span>aroma before Jehovah. It is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p275" data-pid="275" class="p275 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “Then take the breast of the ram of installation, which is offered in behalf of Aaron, and wave it back and forth as a wave offering before Jehovah, and it will become your portion. <span id="chapter29_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> You are to sanctify the breast of the wave offering and the leg of the sacred portion that was waved and that was taken from the ram of installation, from what was offered for Aaron and for his sons. <span id="chapter29_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> It is to become Aaron’s and his sons’ by a permanent regulation to be carried out by the Israelites, for it is a sacred portion, and it will become a sacred portion to be given by the Israelites. It is their sacred portion for Jehovah from their communion sacrifices.</p>
<p id="p276" data-pid="276" class="p276 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “The holy garments that belong to Aaron will be used by his sons after him when they are anointed and installed as priests. <span id="chapter29_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The priest from among his sons who succeeds him and who comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place will wear them for seven days.</p>
<p id="p277" data-pid="277" class="p277 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “You will take the ram of installation and boil its flesh in a holy place. <span id="chapter29_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Aaron and his sons will eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter29_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> They are to eat the things with which atonement was made to install them as priests<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> and to sanctify them. But an unauthorized person<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> may not eat them, for they are something holy. <span id="chapter29_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> If any of the flesh of the installation sacrifice and of the bread is left over until the morning, then you must burn what is left with fire. It must not be eaten, for it is something holy.</p>
<p id="p278" data-pid="278" class="p278 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> “You are to do this way to Aaron and his sons, according to all that I have commanded you. You will take seven days to install them as priests.<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> <span id="chapter29_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> You will offer the bull of the sin offering daily for an atonement, and you are to purify the altar from sin by making atonement for it, and you must anoint it to sanctify it. <span id="chapter29_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> You will take seven days to make atonement for the altar, and you must sanctify it so that it may become a most holy altar. Anyone who touches the altar is to be holy.</p>
<p id="p279" data-pid="279" class="p279 sb"><span id="pos124425"></span><span id="chapter29_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> “This is what you will offer on the altar: two one-year-old rams each day, continually. <span id="chapter29_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Offer the one young ram in the morning and the other ram at twilight.<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> <span id="chapter29_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> A tenth part of an eʹphah measure<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> of beaten oil, and a drink offering of a fourth of a hin of wine, will go for the first young ram. <span id="chapter29_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> You will offer the second young ram at twilight,<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> along with the same grain and drink offerings as in the morning. You will render it as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> aroma, an offering made by fire to Jehovah. <span id="chapter29_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> It is to be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will present myself to you to speak to you there.</p>
<p id="p280" data-pid="280" class="p280 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> “I will present myself there to the Israelites, and it will be sanctified by my glory. <span id="chapter29_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> I will sanctify the tent of meeting and the altar, and I will sanctify Aaron and his sons so <span id="page154" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="154" data-before-text="154"></span>that they may serve as priests to me. <span id="chapter29_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> I will reside<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> among the people of Israel, and I will be their God. <span id="chapter29_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> And they will certainly know that I am Jehovah their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt so that I may reside among them. I am Jehovah their God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote173"><p id="p552" data-pid="552"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource173">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:5</span></a> Or “waistband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p553" data-pid="553"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:6</span></a> Or “the holy diadem.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p554" data-pid="554"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:9</span></a> Lit., “fill the hand of Aaron and the hand of his sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p555" data-pid="555"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:18</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p id="p556" data-pid="556"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:25</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p557" data-pid="557"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:33</span></a> Lit., “to fill their hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p558" data-pid="558"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:33</span></a> Lit., “a stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p559" data-pid="559"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:35</span></a> Lit., “to fill their hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p560" data-pid="560"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:39</span></a> Lit., “between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p561" data-pid="561"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:40</span></a> An ephah equaled 22 L (20 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p562" data-pid="562"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:40</span></a> A hin equaled 3.67 L (7.75 pt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p563" data-pid="563"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:41</span></a> Lit., “between the two evenings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p id="p564" data-pid="564"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:41</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p id="p565" data-pid="565"><a href="1001061106-split29.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 29:45</span></a> Or “tabernacle.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
