<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061170"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Revelation</a>  <a href="biblechapternav66.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav66_15.xhtml">1 - 8</a></p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos41195"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>And I saw in heaven another sign, great and wonderful, seven angels with seven plagues. These are the last ones, because by means of them the anger of God is brought to a finish.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And I saw something like a sea of glass mingled with fire, and those who are victorious over the wild beast and its image and the number of its name were standing by the sea of glass, holding harps of God. <span id="pos41593"></span><span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> They were singing the song of Moses the slave of God and the song of the Lamb, saying:</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb">“Great and wonderful are your works, Jehovah<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> God, the Almighty. Righteous and true are your ways, King of eternity. <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Who will not really fear you, Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> and glorify your name, for you alone are loyal? For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous decrees have been revealed.”</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> After this I saw, and the sanctuary of the tent of the witness was opened in heaven, <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> and the seven angels with the seven plagues emerged from the sanctuary, clothed with clean, bright linen and with golden sashes wrapped around their chests. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> One of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven golden bowls that were full of the anger of God, who lives forever and ever. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And the sanctuary became filled with smoke because of the glory of God and because of his power, and no one was able to enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p227" data-pid="227"><a href="1001061170-split15.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 15:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p228" data-pid="228"><a href="1001061170-split15.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rev. 15:4</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
