<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061120"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav16.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav16_3.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos5939"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>E·liʹa·shib the high priest and his brothers the priests got up to build the Sheep Gate. They sanctified<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> it and set up its doors; they sanctified it as far as the Tower of Meʹah, as far as the Tower of Ha·nanʹel. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And next to them the men of Jerʹi·cho were building; and next to them Zacʹcur the son of Imʹri was building.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> The sons of Has·se·naʹah built the Fish Gate; they timbered it and then set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And next to them Merʹe·moth the son of U·riʹjah the son of Hakʹkoz did repair work, and next to them Me·shulʹlam the son of Ber·e·chiʹah the son of Me·shezʹa·bel did repair work, and next to them Zaʹdok the son of Baʹa·na did repair work. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And next to them the Te·koʹites did repair work, but their prominent men would not lower themselves to share in<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> the service of their masters.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Joiʹa·da the son of Pa·seʹah and Me·shulʹlam the son of Bes·o·deiʹah repaired the Gate of the Old City; they timbered it and then set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Next to them Mel·a·tiʹah the Gibʹe·on·ite and Jaʹdon the Me·ronʹo·thite did repair work, men of Gibʹe·on and Mizʹpah who were under the authority of<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> the governor of the region Beyond the River.<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Next to them Uzʹzi·el the son of Har·haiʹah, one of the goldsmiths, did repair work, and next to him Han·a·niʹah, one of the ointment mixers,<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> did repair work; and they paved<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And next to them Re·phaʹiah the son of Hur, a prince of half the district of Jerusalem, did repair work. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And next to them Je·daʹiah the son of Ha·ruʹmaph did repair work in front of his own house, and next to him Hatʹtush the son of Hash·ab·neiʹah did repair work.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Mal·chiʹjah the son of Haʹrim and Hasʹshub the son of Paʹhath-moʹab repaired another section,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> as well as the Tower of the Ovens. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And next to them Shalʹlum the son of Hal·loʹhesh, a prince of half the district of Jerusalem, did repair work, along with his daughters.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Haʹnun and the inhabitants of Za·noʹah repaired the Valley Gate; they built it and then set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and they repaired 1,000 cubits<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> of the wall as far as the Gate of the Ash Heaps. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Mal·chiʹjah the son of Reʹchab, a prince of the district of Beth-hac·cheʹrem, repaired the Gate of the Ash Heaps; he built it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Shalʹlun the son of Col·hoʹzeh, a prince of the district of Mizʹpah, repaired the Fountain Gate; he built it and its roof, set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and also repaired the wall <span id="page671" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="671" data-before-text="671"></span>of the Pool of the Canal to the King’s Garden and as far as the Stairway that goes down from the City of David.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> After him Ne·he·miʹah the son of Azʹbuk, a prince of half the district of Beth-zur, did repair work from in front of the Burial Places of David as far as the pool that had been built and as far as the House of the Mighty Ones.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> After him the Levites did repair work: Reʹhum the son of Baʹni; and next to him Hash·a·biʹah, a prince of half the district of Keiʹlah, did repair work for his district. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> After him their brothers did repair work: Bavʹvai the son of Henʹa·dad, a prince of half the district of Keiʹlah.</p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And next to him Eʹzer the son of Jeshʹu·a, a prince of Mizʹpah, was repairing another section in front of the ascent to the Armory at the Buttress.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After him Barʹuch the son of Zabʹbai worked with fervor and repaired another section, from the Buttress as far as the entrance of the house of E·liʹa·shib the high priest.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After him Merʹe·moth the son of U·riʹjah the son of Hakʹkoz repaired another section, from the entrance of the house of E·liʹa·shib as far as the end of E·liʹa·shib’s house.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And after him the priests, men of the district of the Jordan,<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> did repair work. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After them Benjamin and Hasʹshub did repair work in front of their own house. After them Az·a·riʹah the son of Ma·a·seiʹah the son of A·na·niʹah did repair work near his own house. <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> After him Binʹnu·i the son of Henʹa·dad repaired another section, from the house of Az·a·riʹah as far as the Buttress and as far as the corner.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> After him Paʹlal the son of Uʹzai did repair work in front of the Buttress and the tower that goes out from the King’s House,<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> the upper one that belongs to the Courtyard of the Guard. After him there was Pe·daiʹah the son of Paʹrosh.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And the temple servants<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> who lived in Oʹphel did repair work as far as in front of the Water Gate on the east and the protruding tower.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> After them the Te·koʹites repaired another section, from in front of the great protruding tower as far as the wall of Oʹphel.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The priests did repair work above the Horse Gate, each in front of his own house.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> After them Zaʹdok the son of Imʹmer did repair work in front of his own house.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb">And after him She·maiʹah the son of Shec·a·niʹah, the keeper of the East Gate, did repair work.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> After him Han·a·niʹah the son of Shel·e·miʹah and Haʹnun the sixth son of Zaʹlaph repaired another section.</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb">After him Me·shulʹlam the son of Ber·e·chiʹah did repair work in front of his own hall.</p>
<p id="p33" data-pid="33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> After him Mal·chiʹjah, a member of the goldsmith guild, did repair work as far as the house of the temple servants<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> and the traders, in front of the Inspection Gate and as far as the roof chamber of the corner.</p>
<p id="p34" data-pid="34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And between the roof chamber of the corner and the Sheep Gate, the goldsmiths and the traders did repair work.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p148" data-pid="148"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:1</span></a> Or “dedicated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p149" data-pid="149"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:5</span></a> Lit., “not bring their neck into.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p150" data-pid="150"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:7</span></a> Lit., “belonging to the throne of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p151" data-pid="151"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:7</span></a> Or “of Trans-Euphrates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p152" data-pid="152"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:8</span></a> Or “the perfume makers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p153" data-pid="153"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:8</span></a> Or “paved with flagstone.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p154" data-pid="154"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:11</span></a> Or “measured section.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p155" data-pid="155"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:13</span></a> About 445 m (1,460 ft). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p156" data-pid="156"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:22</span></a> Or possibly, “the nearby district.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p157" data-pid="157"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:25</span></a> Or “Palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p158" data-pid="158"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:26</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p159" data-pid="159"><a href="1001061120-split3.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 3:31</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
