<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_24.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="pos93976"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>Now the divisions of the descendants of Aaron were these: The sons of Aaron were Naʹdab, A·biʹhu, El·e·aʹzar, and Ithʹa·mar. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> However, Naʹdab and A·biʹhu died before their father, and they did not have any sons; but El·e·aʹzar and Ithʹa·mar continued to serve as priests. <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> David, along with Zaʹdok from the sons of El·e·aʹzar and A·himʹe·lech from the sons of Ithʹa·mar, made divisions of them for the office of their service. <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Since the sons of El·e·aʹzar had more headmen than the sons of Ithʹa·mar had, they divided them accordingly: The sons of El·e·aʹzar had 16 as heads of their paternal houses, and the sons of Ithʹa·mar had 8 as heads of their paternal houses.</p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Further, they divided them by lots, the one group along with the other, for there were chiefs of the holy place and chiefs of the true God from both the sons of El·e·aʹzar and the sons of Ithʹa·mar. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then She·maiʹah the son of Ne·thanʹel the secretary of the Levites recorded their names before the king, the princes, Zaʹdok the priest, A·himʹe·lech the son of A·biʹa·thar, and the heads of the paternal houses of the priests and of the Levites, one paternal house being selected for El·e·aʹzar and one being selected for Ithʹa·mar.</p>
<p id="p217" data-pid="217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The first lot came out to Je·hoiʹa·rib; the second to Je·daʹiah, <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> the third to Haʹrim, the fourth to Se·oʹrim, <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> the fifth to Mal·chiʹjah, the sixth to Mijʹa·min, <span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> the seventh to Hakʹkoz, the eighth to A·biʹjah, <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the ninth to Jeshʹu·a, the tenth to Shec·a·niʹah, <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> the 11th to E·liʹa·shib, the 12th to Jaʹkim, <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> the 13th to Hupʹpah, the 14th to Je·shebʹe·ab, <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> the 15th to Bilʹgah, the 16th to Imʹmer, <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> the 17th to Heʹzir, the 18th to Hapʹpiz·zez, <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> the 19th to Peth·a·hiʹah, the 20th to Je·hezʹkel, <span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the 21st to Jaʹchin, the 22nd to Gaʹmul, <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the 23rd to De·laʹiah, the 24th to Ma·a·ziʹah.</p>
<p id="p218" data-pid="218" class="p218 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> These were their offices for their service when they would come into the house of Jehovah according to the procedure set by their forefather Aaron, just as Jehovah the God of Israel had commanded him.</p>
<p id="p219" data-pid="219" class="p219 sb"><span id="pos96061"></span><span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And of the rest of the Levites: of the sons of Amʹram, there was Shuʹba·el; of the sons of Shuʹba·el, Jeh·deʹiah; <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> of Re·ha·biʹah: of the sons of Re·ha·biʹah, Is·shiʹah the head; <span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> of the Izʹhar·ites, She·loʹmoth; of the sons of She·loʹmoth, Jaʹhath; <span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> and of the sons of Hebʹron, Je·riʹah the head, Am·a·riʹah the second, Ja·ha·ziʹel the third, Jek·a·meʹam the fourth; <span id="chapter24_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> of the sons of Uzʹzi·el, Miʹcah; of the sons of Miʹcah, Shaʹmir. <span id="chapter24_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> The brother of Miʹcah was Is·shiʹah; of the sons of Is·shiʹah, Zech·a·riʹah.</p>
<p id="p220" data-pid="220" class="p220 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi were Mahʹli and Muʹshi; of the sons of Ja·a·ziʹah, Beʹno. <span id="chapter24_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The sons of Me·rarʹi: of Ja·a·ziʹah, Beʹno, Shoʹham, Zacʹcur, and Ibʹri; <span id="chapter24_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> of Mahʹli, El·e·aʹzar, who did not have any sons; <span id="chapter24_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> of Kish: the sons of Kish, Je·rahʹme·el; <span id="page598" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="598" data-before-text="598"></span><span id="chapter24_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and the sons of Muʹshi were Mahʹli, Eʹder, and Jerʹi·moth.</p>
<p id="p221" data-pid="221" class="p221 sb">These were the sons of Leʹvi by their paternal houses. <span id="chapter24_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And they also cast lots just as their brothers the sons of Aaron did in the presence of King David, Zaʹdok, A·himʹe·lech, and the heads of the paternal houses of the priests and of the Levites. Regarding the paternal houses, the head one was just as his younger brother.</p>
</body>
</html>
