<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">31</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_31.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p244" data-pid="244" class="p244 sb"><span id="pos132775"></span><span id="chapter31"></span><span id="chapter31_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>31</strong> </span>Then Moses went out and spoke these words to all Israel, <span id="chapter31_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> saying to them: “I am 120 years old today. I can no longer lead you,<span id="footnotesource202"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote202">*</a> for Jehovah has said to me, ‘You will not cross this Jordan.’ <span id="chapter31_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Jehovah your God is the one crossing before you, and he himself will annihilate these nations before you, and you will drive them away. Joshua is the one who will lead you across, just as Jehovah has spoken. <span id="chapter31_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Jehovah will do to them just as he did to Siʹhon and to Og, the kings of the Amʹor·ites, and to their land when he annihilated them. <span id="chapter31_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah will defeat them for you, and you are to do to them according to the whole commandment that I have given you. <span id="chapter31_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Be courageous and strong. Do not be afraid or struck with terror before them, for Jehovah your God is the one marching with you. He will neither desert you nor abandon you.”</p>
<p id="p245" data-pid="245" class="p245 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Moses then called Joshua and said to him before the eyes of all Israel: “Be courageous and strong, for you are the one who will bring this people into the land that Jehovah swore to their forefathers to give to them, and <span id="page317" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="317" data-before-text="317"></span>you will give it to them as an inheritance. <span id="chapter31_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jehovah is the one marching before you, and he will continue with you. He will neither desert you nor abandon you. Do not be afraid or be terrified.”</p>
<p id="p246" data-pid="246" class="p246 sb"><span id="pos134063"></span><span id="chapter31_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then Moses wrote this Law and gave it to the priests, the Levites, who carry the ark of Jehovah’s covenant, and to all the elders of Israel. <span id="chapter31_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Moses commanded them, saying: “At the end of every seven years, at the appointed time in the year of the release, during the Festival of Booths,<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> <span id="chapter31_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> when all Israel appears before the presence of Jehovah your God in the place that he chooses, you should read this Law for all Israel to hear it. <span id="chapter31_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Gather the people together, the men, the women, the children,<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> and your foreign resident who is within your cities,<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> in order that they may listen and learn about and fear Jehovah your God and take care to carry out all the words of this Law. <span id="chapter31_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then their sons who have not known this Law will listen and learn to fear Jehovah your God all the days that you live in the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess.”</p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sb"><span id="pos134955"></span><span id="chapter31_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Moses: “Look! The time has drawn near for you to die. Call Joshua, and present yourselves<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> at the tent of meeting, so that I may commission him.” So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter31_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Jehovah appeared at the tent in the pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood by the entrance of the tent.</p>
<p id="p248" data-pid="248" class="p248 sb"><span id="pos135330"></span><span id="chapter31_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Jehovah now said to Moses: “Look! You are about to die,<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a> and this people will begin to commit spiritual prostitution with the foreign gods that are around them in the land to which they are going. They will forsake me and break my covenant that I have made with them. <span id="chapter31_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> At that time my anger will blaze against them, and I will forsake them and hide my face from them until they are devoured. Then after many calamities and distresses have come upon them, they will say, ‘Is it not because our God is not in our midst that these calamities have come upon us?’ <span id="chapter31_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But I will keep my face hidden in that day because of all the wickedness that they have done in turning to other gods.</p>
<p id="p249" data-pid="249" class="p249 sb"><span id="pos136037"></span><span id="chapter31_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Now write down this song for yourselves and teach it to the Israelites. Have them learn it<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> in order that this song may serve as my witness against the people of Israel. <span id="chapter31_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When I bring them to the land that I have sworn about to their forefathers—one flowing with milk and honey—and they eat their fill and prosper,<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> they will turn to other gods and serve them and treat me with disrespect and break my covenant. <span id="chapter31_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When many calamities and distresses come upon them, this song will serve as a witness to them (for their descendants should not forget it), for I already know the inclination that they have developed even before I bring them into the land about which I have sworn.”</p>
<p id="p250" data-pid="250" class="p250 sb"><span id="pos136743"></span><span id="chapter31_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So Moses wrote down this song in that day and taught it to the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p251" data-pid="251" class="p251 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> He<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> then commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said: <span id="page318" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="318" data-before-text="318"></span>“Be courageous and strong, for you are the one who will bring the Israelites into the land about which I have sworn to them, and I will continue with you.”</p>
<p id="p252" data-pid="252" class="p252 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> As soon as Moses had completed writing the words of this Law in a book in their entirety, <span id="chapter31_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Moses commanded the Levites who carry the ark of Jehovah’s covenant, saying: <span id="chapter31_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “Take this book of the Law and place it at the side of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, and it will serve as a witness there against you. <span id="chapter31_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For I myself well know your rebelliousness and your stubbornness.<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> If you have been so rebellious against Jehovah while I am still alive with you, then how much more so will you be after my death! <span id="chapter31_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Gather together to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, and let me speak these words in their hearing, and let me take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against them. <span id="chapter31_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For I well know that after my death you will surely act wickedly and turn aside from the way about which I have commanded you. And calamity will certainly befall you at the close of the days, because you will do what is bad in the eyes of Jehovah and you will offend him by the works of your hands.”</p>
<p id="p253" data-pid="253" class="p253 sb"><span id="pos138097"></span><span id="chapter31_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then in the hearing of the entire congregation of Israel, Moses recited the words of this song from beginning to end:</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote202"><p id="p579" data-pid="579"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource202">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:2</span></a> Lit., “go out and come in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p580" data-pid="580"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:10</span></a> Or “Temporary Shelters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p581" data-pid="581"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:12</span></a> Lit., “little ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p582" data-pid="582"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:12</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p583" data-pid="583"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:14</span></a> Or “take your places.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p584" data-pid="584"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:16</span></a> Lit., “lie down with your fathers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p585" data-pid="585"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:19</span></a> Lit., “Place it in their mouths.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p586" data-pid="586"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:20</span></a> Lit., “grow fat.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p587" data-pid="587"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:23</span></a> Evidently God.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p588" data-pid="588"><a href="1001061109-split31.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 31:27</span></a> Lit., “stiff neck.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
