<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 41</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">41</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_41.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p500" data-pid="500" class="p500 sb"><span id="pos178576"></span><span id="chapter41"></span><span id="chapter41_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>41</strong> </span>Then he brought me into the outer sanctuary,<span id="footnotesource319"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote319">*</a> and he measured the side pillars; they were six cubits<span id="footnotesource320"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote320">*</a> wide on one side and six cubits wide on the other side. <span id="chapter41_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The entrance was ten cubits wide, and the sidewalls<span id="footnotesource321"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote321">*</a> of the entrance were five cubits on one side and five cubits on the other side. He measured its length, which was 40 cubits, and its width, 20 cubits.</p>
<p id="p501" data-pid="501" class="p501 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He then went inside<span id="footnotesource322"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote322">*</a> and measured the side pillar of the entrance, and it was two cubits thick, and the entrance was six cubits wide. The sidewalls of the entrance were<span id="footnotesource323"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote323">*</a> seven cubits. <span id="chapter41_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Next he measured the room facing the outer sanctuary, and it was 20 cubits long and 20 cubits wide. And he said to me: “This is the Most Holy.”</p>
<p id="p502" data-pid="502" class="p502 sb"><span id="pos179283"></span><span id="chapter41_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then he measured the wall of the temple, and it was six cubits thick. The side chambers around the temple were four cubits wide. <span id="chapter41_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The side chambers were three stories high, one on top of the other, with 30 chambers on each story. There were ledges around the wall of the temple that served as supports for the side chambers, so that the supports did not go into the wall of the temple itself. <span id="chapter41_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> On both sides of the temple was a winding passage<span id="footnotesource324"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote324">*</a> that widened as it ascended to the upper chambers. The width increased from story to story as one ascended from the lowest story to the uppermost story by passing through the middle story.</p>
<p id="p503" data-pid="503" class="p503 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> I saw that there was a raised platform all around the temple, and the foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed of six cubits to the corner. <span id="chapter41_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The width of the outside wall of the side chambers was five cubits. There was an open space<span id="footnotesource325"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote325">*</a> alongside the structure of the side chambers that was part of the temple.</p>
<p id="p504" data-pid="504" class="p504 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Between the temple and the dining rooms<span id="footnotesource326"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote326">*</a> was an area that was 20 cubits wide on each side. <span id="chapter41_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> There was an entrance between the side chambers and the open space on the north side and another entrance on the south side. The width of the open space was five cubits all around.</p>
<p id="p505" data-pid="505" class="p505 sb"><span id="pos180543"></span><span id="chapter41_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The building that was on the west facing the open area was 70 cubits wide and 90 cubits long; the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around.</p>
<p id="p506" data-pid="506" class="p506 sb"><span id="pos180702"></span><span id="chapter41_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He measured the temple, and it was 100 cubits long. The open area, the building,<span id="footnotesource327"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote327">*</a> and its walls were also 100 cubits long. <span id="chapter41_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The width of the front of the temple facing east and the open area was 100 cubits.</p>
<p id="p507" data-pid="507" class="p507 sb"><span id="pos180922"></span><span id="chapter41_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He measured the length of the building that faced the open area in the rear, along with its galleries on both sides, and it was 100 cubits.</p>
<p id="p508" data-pid="508" class="p508 sb">He also measured the outer sanctuary, the inner sanctuary, and the porches of the courtyard, <span id="chapter41_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> as well as the thresholds, the windows with narrowing frames, and the galleries that were in those three areas. <span id="page1194" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1194" data-before-text="1194"></span>Near the threshold were wood panels from the floor up to the windows; and the windows were covered. <span id="chapter41_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Measurements were taken above the entrance and in the inner temple and on the outside and on the entire wall all around. <span id="chapter41_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> It had carved cherubs and palm-tree figures, with each palm tree between two cherubs, and each cherub had two faces. <span id="chapter41_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The human face was toward the palm tree on one side, and the face of a lion<span id="footnotesource328"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote328">*</a> was toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved this way throughout the entire temple. <span id="chapter41_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> From the floor to the area above the entrance were carved cherubs and palm-tree figures on the wall of the sanctuary.</p>
<p id="p509" data-pid="509" class="p509 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> The doorposts<span id="footnotesource329"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote329">*</a> of the sanctuary were square. In front of the holy place<span id="footnotesource330"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote330">*</a> was something like <span id="chapter41_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> a wooden altar that was three cubits high and two cubits long. It had corner posts, and its base<span id="footnotesource331"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote331">*</a> and its sides were made of wood. He then said to me: “This is the table that is before Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p510" data-pid="510" class="p510 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The outer sanctuary and the holy place each had two doors. <span id="chapter41_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The doors had two swinging leaves, two leaves for each door. <span id="chapter41_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> There were carved cherubs and palm-tree figures on the doors of the sanctuary, like those on the walls. There was also a wooden overhang<span id="footnotesource332"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote332">*</a> on the front of the porch on the outside. <span id="chapter41_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> There were also windows with narrowing frames and palm-tree figures along both sides of the porch, as well as along the side chambers of the temple and the overhangs.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote319"><p id="p909" data-pid="909"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource319">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:1</span></a> Lit., “the temple.” In chapters 41 and 42, this expression refers to the outer sanctuary (Holy) or to the entire sanctuary (the temple including the Holy and the Most Holy).</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote320"><p id="p910" data-pid="910"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource320">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:1</span></a> This refers to long cubits. See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote321"><p id="p911" data-pid="911"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource321">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:2</span></a> Lit., “sides.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote322"><p id="p912" data-pid="912"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource322">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:3</span></a> That is, into the inner sanctuary, or Most Holy.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote323"><p id="p913" data-pid="913"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource323">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:3</span></a> Lit., “The width of the entrance was.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote324"><p id="p914" data-pid="914"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource324">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:7</span></a> Apparently referring to circular staircases.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote325"><p id="p915" data-pid="915"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource325">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:9</span></a> Apparently a narrow walkway around the temple.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote326"><p id="p916" data-pid="916"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource326">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:10</span></a> Or “the chambers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote327"><p id="p917" data-pid="917"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource327">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:13</span></a> That is, the building west of the sanctuary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote328"><p id="p918" data-pid="918"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource328">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:19</span></a> Or “maned young lion.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote329"><p id="p919" data-pid="919"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource329">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:21</span></a> Lit., “The doorpost.” This apparently refers to the entrance into the Holy.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote330"><p id="p920" data-pid="920"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource330">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:21</span></a> Apparently referring to the Most Holy.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote331"><p id="p921" data-pid="921"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource331">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:22</span></a> Lit., “length.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote332"><p id="p922" data-pid="922"><a href="1001061130-split41.xhtml#footnotesource332">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 41:25</span></a> Or “canopy.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
