<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_6.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos20950"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>David again gathered all the best troops in Israel, 30,000 men. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then David and all the men with him set out for Baʹal·e-juʹdah to bring up from there the Ark of the true God, before which people call on the name of Jehovah of armies, who sits enthroned above<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> the cherubs. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, they placed the Ark of the true God on a new wagon to transport it from the house of A·binʹa·dab, which was on the hill; and Uzʹzah and A·hiʹo, the sons of A·binʹa·dab, were leading the new wagon.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So they transported the Ark of the true God from A·binʹa·dab’s <span id="page449" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="449" data-before-text="449"></span>house on the hill, and A·hiʹo was walking ahead of the Ark. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before Jehovah with all sorts of juniper-wood instruments, harps, other stringed instruments, tambourines, sistrums, and cymbals. <span id="pos21764"></span><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But when they came to the threshing floor of Naʹcon, Uzʹzah thrust his hand out to the Ark of the true God and grabbed hold of it, for the cattle nearly upset it. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At that Jehovah’s anger blazed against Uzʹzah, and the true God struck him down there for his irreverent act, and he died there beside the Ark of the true God. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But David became angry<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> because Jehovah’s wrath had broken through against Uzʹzah; and that place has been called Peʹrez-uzʹzah<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> down to this day. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So David became fearful of Jehovah on that day and said: “How can the Ark of Jehovah come to me?” <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> David was not willing to bring the Ark of Jehovah to where he was in the City of David. Instead, David had it taken to the house of Oʹbed-eʹdom the Gitʹtite.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The Ark of Jehovah remained at the house of Oʹbed-eʹdom the Gitʹtite for three months, and Jehovah kept blessing Oʹbed-eʹdom and all his household. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The report was made to King David: “Jehovah has blessed the house of Oʹbed-eʹdom and all that belongs to him because of the Ark of the true God.” So David went to bring the Ark of the true God from the house of Oʹbed-eʹdom up to the City of David with rejoicing. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When the carriers of the Ark of Jehovah had marched six steps, he sacrificed a bull and a fattened animal.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> David was dancing around before Jehovah with all his might; all the while David wore<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> a linen ephʹod. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> David and all the house of Israel were bringing up the Ark of Jehovah with joyful shouting and with the sound of the horn. <span id="pos23303"></span><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But when the Ark of Jehovah came into the City of David, Saul’s daughter Miʹchal looked down through the window and saw King David leaping and dancing around before Jehovah; and she began to despise him in her heart. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So they brought the Ark of Jehovah in and set it in its place inside the tent that David had pitched for it. Then David offered up burnt offerings and communion sacrifices before Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When David finished offering up the burnt offerings and the communion sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah of armies. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Further, he distributed to all the people, to the whole multitude of Israel, to each man and woman, a ring-shaped loaf of bread, a date cake, and a raisin cake, and then all the people left, each to his own house.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos24087"></span><span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When David returned to bless his own household, Saul’s daughter Miʹchal came out to meet him. She said: “How glorious the king of Israel made himself when he uncovered himself today before the eyes of the slave girls of his servants, just as an empty-headed man openly uncovers himself!” <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> At this David said to Miʹchal: “My celebration was before Jehovah, who chose me rather than your father and all his household and who appointed me as leader over Jehovah’s people, Israel. Therefore, I will celebrate before Jehovah, <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> and I will humble myself even more than this and <span id="page450" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="450" data-before-text="450"></span>become low even in my own eyes. But by the slave girls whom you mentioned, I will be glorified.” <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So Saul’s daughter Miʹchal had no children down to the day of her death.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p289" data-pid="289"><a href="1001061114-split6.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 6:2</span></a> Or possibly, “between.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061114-split6.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 6:8</span></a> Or “upset.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061114-split6.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 6:8</span></a> Meaning “Breach Against Uzzah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061114-split6.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 6:14</span></a> Lit., “was girded with.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
