<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_17.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="pos70193"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>As soon as David was settled in his own house,<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> he said to Nathan the prophet: “Here I am living in a house of cedars while the ark of the covenant of Jehovah is under tent cloths.” <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Nathan replied to David: “Do whatever is in your heart, for the true God is with you.”</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> On that very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying: <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Go and say to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in. <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For I have not dwelled in a house from the day I brought Israel out to this day, but I continued going from tent to tent and from one tabernacle to another.<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> During all the time that I went with all Israel, did I ever say one word to any of the judges of Israel whom I appointed to shepherd my people, saying, ‘Why did you not build a house of cedars for me?’”’</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="pos71041"></span><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Now say this to my servant David, ‘This is what Jehovah of armies says: “I took you from the pastures, from following the flock, to become a leader over my people Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And I will be with you wherever you go, and I will do away with<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> all your enemies from before you; and I will make a name for you like the name of the great men of the earth. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I will appoint a place for my people Israel and settle them, and they will live there and not be disturbed anymore; and wicked men will not oppress them<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> again as they did in the past, <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> from the day that <span id="page590" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="590" data-before-text="590"></span>I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I tell you, ‘Jehovah will build a house<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> for you.’</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘“When your days come to an end and you go to be with your forefathers, I will raise up your offspring<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> after you, one of your sons, and I will firmly establish his kingship. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He is the one who will build a house for me, and I will firmly establish his throne forever. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> I will become his father, and he will become my son. I will not remove my loyal love from him the way I removed it from the one who was prior to you. <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I will cause him to stand in my house and in my kingship forever, and his throne will last forever.”’”</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Nathan told David all these words and this entire vision.</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="pos72380"></span><span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At that King David came in and sat down before Jehovah and said: “Who am I, O Jehovah God? And what is my house that you have brought me this far? <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> As if this were not enough, O God, you also speak about the house of your servant down to a distant future time, and you have looked on me as if I were a man who should be further exalted,<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> O Jehovah God. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> What more can your servant David say to you about the honor given me when you know your servant so well? <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> O Jehovah, for the sake of your servant and in agreement with your heart<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> you have done all these great things by revealing your greatness. <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> O Jehovah, there is no one like you, and there is no God except you; everything we have heard with our ears confirms this. <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And what other nation on earth is like your people Israel? The true God went and redeemed them as his people. You made a name for yourself by your great and awe-inspiring deeds, driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt. <span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> You made your people Israel your own people for all time; and you, O Jehovah, became their God. <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now, O Jehovah, may the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house prove faithful for all time, and may you do just as you have promised. <span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> May your name endure<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> and be exalted forever, so that people may say, ‘Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, is God to Israel,’ and may the house of your servant David be firmly established before you. <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For you, my God, have revealed to your servant your purpose to build him a house.<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> That is why your servant has the confidence to offer this prayer to you. <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And now, O Jehovah, you are the true God, and you have promised these good things concerning your servant. <span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> So may it please you to bless the house of your servant, and may it continue forever before you, for you, O Jehovah, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p362" data-pid="362"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:5</span></a> Possibly meaning “from one tent site to another and from one dwelling place to another.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:8</span></a> Lit., “cut off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p364" data-pid="364"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:9</span></a> Lit., “wear them out.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p365" data-pid="365"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:10</span></a> Or “dynasty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p366" data-pid="366"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:11</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p id="p367" data-pid="367"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:17</span></a> Or “a man of high station.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p368" data-pid="368"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:19</span></a> Or “in harmony with your will.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p369" data-pid="369"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:24</span></a> Or “prove faithful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p370" data-pid="370"><a href="1001061117-split17.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 17:25</span></a> Or “dynasty.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
