<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_16.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p619" data-pid="619" class="p619 sb"><span id="pos66397"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “You must not take a wife for yourself, and you must not have sons and daughters in this place. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah says concerning the sons and daughters who are born here and concerning their mothers who give birth to them and concerning their fathers who cause their birth in this land: <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> ‘They will die of deadly diseases, but no one will mourn them or bury them; they will become like manure on the surface of the ground. They will perish by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies will be food for the birds of the heavens and for the beasts of the earth.’</p>
<p id="p620" data-pid="620" class="p620 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah says,</p><p data-pid="620" class="p620 sz">‘Do not enter a house where a mourners’ feast is held,</p><p data-pid="620" class="p620 sz">And do not go to wail or offer sympathy.’</p>
<p id="p621" data-pid="621" class="p621 sz">‘For I have taken away my peace from this people,’ declares Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="621" class="p621 sz">‘As well as my loyal love and mercy.</p>
<p id="p622" data-pid="622" class="p622 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Both the great and the small will die in this land.</p>
<p id="p623" data-pid="623" class="p623 sz">They will not be buried,</p><p data-pid="623" class="p623 sz">No one will mourn them,</p><p data-pid="623" class="p623 sz">Nor will anyone cut himself or make himself bald for them.<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a></p>
<p id="p624" data-pid="624" class="p624 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And no one will provide food for those in mourning,</p><p data-pid="624" class="p624 sz">To comfort them over their dead;</p><p data-pid="624" class="p624 sz">Nor will anyone give them the cup of consolation</p><p data-pid="624" class="p624 sz">To drink over the loss of their father or mother.</p>
<p id="p625" data-pid="625" class="p625 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> And do not enter a house of feasting</p><p data-pid="625" class="p625 sz">To sit down with them to eat and drink.’</p>
<p id="p626" data-pid="626" class="p626 sb"><span id="page1059" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1059" data-before-text="1059"></span><span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “For this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘Here in this place, in your days and before your very eyes, I will put an end to the sounds of exultation and rejoicing, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.’</p>
<p id="p627" data-pid="627" class="p627 sb"><span id="pos67993"></span><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “When you tell this people all these words, they will ask you, ‘Why has Jehovah spoken of all this great calamity against us? What error and what sin have we committed against Jehovah our God?’ <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You must reply to them, ‘“Because your forefathers abandoned me,” declares Jehovah, “and they kept following other gods and serving them and bowing down to them. But me they abandoned, and my law they did not keep. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And you have behaved far worse than your forefathers, and each one of you follows the stubbornness of his wicked heart instead of obeying me. <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So I will hurl you out of this land into a land that neither you nor your forefathers have known, and there you will have to serve other gods day and night, because I will show you no favor.”’</p>
<p id="p628" data-pid="628" class="p628 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘However, the days are coming,’ declares Jehovah, ‘when they will no longer say: “As surely as Jehovah is alive, who brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt!” <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> but rather: “As surely as Jehovah is alive, who brought the people of Israel from the land of the north and from all the lands to which he had dispersed them!” and I will bring them back to their land, which I gave to their forefathers.’</p>
<p id="p629" data-pid="629" class="p629 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> ‘Here I am sending for many fishermen,’ declares Jehovah,</p><p data-pid="629" class="p629 sz">‘And they will fish for them.</p>
<p id="p630" data-pid="630" class="p630 sz">After that I will send for many hunters,</p><p data-pid="630" class="p630 sz">And they will hunt them down on every mountain and every hill</p><p data-pid="630" class="p630 sz">And out of the clefts of the crags.</p>
<p id="p631" data-pid="631" class="p631 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For my eyes are on everything they do.<span id="footnotesource149"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote149">*</a></p>
<p id="p632" data-pid="632" class="p632 sz">They have not been hidden from before me,</p><p data-pid="632" class="p632 sz">Nor has their error been hidden from my eyes.</p>
<p id="p633" data-pid="633" class="p633 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> First, I will repay the full amount due for their error and their sin,</p><p data-pid="633" class="p633 sz">For they have profaned my land with the lifeless figures<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> of their disgusting idols</p><p data-pid="633" class="p633 sz">And have filled my inheritance with their detestable things.’”</p>
<p id="p634" data-pid="634" class="p634 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> O Jehovah, my strength and my stronghold,</p><p data-pid="634" class="p634 sz">My place to flee in the day of distress,</p><p data-pid="634" class="p634 sz">To you the nations will come from the ends of the earth,</p><p data-pid="634" class="p634 sz">And they will say: “Our forefathers inherited utter falsehood,</p><p data-pid="634" class="p634 sz">Futility and useless things of no benefit.”</p>
<p id="p635" data-pid="635" class="p635 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Can a man make gods for himself</p><p data-pid="635" class="p635 sz">When they are not really gods?</p>
<p id="p636" data-pid="636" class="p636 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “So I will make them know,</p><p data-pid="636" class="p636 sz">At this time I will make them know my power and my might,</p><p data-pid="636" class="p636 sz">And they will have to know that my name is Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p id="p1725" data-pid="1725"><a href="1001061128-split16.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 16:6</span></a> Pagan mourning customs apparently practiced in apostate Israel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote149"><p id="p1726" data-pid="1726"><a href="1001061128-split16.xhtml#footnotesource149">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 16:17</span></a> Lit., “on all their ways.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p id="p1727" data-pid="1727"><a href="1001061128-split16.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 16:18</span></a> Lit., “the corpses.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
