<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_15.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p121" data-pid="121" class="p121 sb"><span id="page192" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="192" data-before-text="192"></span><span id="pos65153"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>Jehovah continued to speak to Moses and Aaron, saying: <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘If a man has a discharge from his genital organ,<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> this discharge makes him unclean. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He is unclean from the discharge, whether the discharge continues to flow from his genitals or is obstructed, he is still unclean.</p>
<p id="p122" data-pid="122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “‘Any bed that the one with the discharge lies on will be unclean, and anything he sits on will be unclean. <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> A man who touches his bed must wash his garments, and he should bathe in water and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Anyone who sits on an article that the one having a discharge sat on should wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Whoever touches the flesh of the one having a discharge should wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> If the one who has a discharge spits on someone clean, that person must wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Any saddle that the one with the discharge rides on will be unclean. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Anyone touching anything that was under him will be unclean until the evening, and anyone who carries those items will wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If the one with the discharge has not washed his hands in water and he touches someone, that person must then wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> An earthenware vessel that the one having a discharge touches should be smashed, and any wooden vessel should be washed with water.</p>
<p id="p123" data-pid="123" class="p123 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘When the discharge stops and the person becomes clean from it, he will then count seven days for his purification, and he must wash his garments, bathe himself in running water, and he will be clean. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> On the eighth day, he should take two turtledoves or two young pigeons and come before Jehovah at the entrance of the tent of meeting and give them to the priest. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And the priest will offer them, the one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, and the priest will make atonement for him before Jehovah concerning his discharge.</p>
<p id="p124" data-pid="124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘Now if a man has an emission of semen, he should bathe his whole body in water and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He must wash with water any garment and any skin with semen on it, and it will be unclean until the evening.</p>
<p id="p125" data-pid="125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘When a man lies with a woman and has an emission of semen, they should bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.</p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘If a woman has a discharge of blood from her body, she will continue in her menstrual impurity for seven days. Anyone touching her will be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Anything she lies down on in her menstrual impurity will be unclean, and everything she sits on will be unclean. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Anyone touching her bed should wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Anyone touching any article she sat on should wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> If she sat on the bed or on another article, his touching it will make him unclean until the evening. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And if a man lies down with her and her menstrual impurity comes <span id="page193" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="193" data-before-text="193"></span>on him, he will then be unclean for seven days, and any bed on which he lies down will be unclean.</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “‘When a woman’s discharge of blood flows for many days when it is not the regular time of her menstruation, or if she should have a flow longer than her usual menstruation, she will be unclean during all the days of her discharge, as in the days of her menstrual impurity. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Any bed she lies on during the days of her discharge will become like the bed of her menstrual impurity, and any article she sits on will become unclean like the uncleanness of her menstrual impurity. <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Anyone touching them will be unclean, and he must wash his garments, bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “‘However, when she is clean from her discharge, she will count for herself seven days, and afterward she will be clean. <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> On the eighth day, she should take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, and she will bring them to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> The priest will make the one a sin offering and the other a burnt offering, and the priest will make atonement for her before Jehovah concerning her unclean discharge.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “‘Thus you must keep the Israelites separate from their uncleanness, so that they do not die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle, which is in their midst.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “‘This is the law about the man having a discharge, the man who is unclean because of an emission of semen, <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> the woman during her menstrual impurity, any male or female who has a discharge flowing from the body, and a man who lies down with an unclean woman.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061107-split15.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 15:2</span></a> Lit., “his flesh.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
