<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_16.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p152" data-pid="152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos91857"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah against Baʹa·sha then came to Jeʹhu the son of Ha·naʹni, saying: <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “I raised you up out of the dust and made you leader over my people Israel, but you kept walking in the way of Jer·o·boʹam and caused my people Israel to sin so that they offended me with their sins. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> So I am making a clean sweep of Baʹa·sha and his house, and I will make his house like the house of Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Anyone belonging to Baʹa·sha who dies in the city the dogs will eat; and anyone belonging to him who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat.”</p>
<p id="p153" data-pid="153" class="p153 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Baʹa·sha, what he did and his mightiness, is it not written <span id="page510" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="510" data-before-text="510"></span>in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Baʹa·sha was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in Tirʹzah; and Eʹlah his son became king in his place. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Also through the prophet Jeʹhu the son of Ha·naʹni, Jehovah’s word came against Baʹa·sha and his house, both because of all the badness that he committed in the eyes of Jehovah by offending him with the work of his hands, becoming like the house of Jer·o·boʹam, and also because of his striking him<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> down.</p>
<p id="p154" data-pid="154" class="p154 sb"><span id="pos93052"></span><span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In the 26th year of King Aʹsa of Judah, Eʹlah the son of Baʹa·sha became king over Israel in Tirʹzah, and he reigned for two years. <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> His servant Zimʹri, the chief of half of his chariot forces, conspired against him while he was in Tirʹzah drinking himself drunk at the house of Arʹza, who was over the household in Tirʹzah. <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Zimʹri came in and struck him down and put him to death in the 27th year of King Aʹsa of Judah, and he became king in his place. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> When he became king, as soon as he sat down on his throne, he struck down all the house of Baʹa·sha. He did not spare a single male,<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> whether of his relatives<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> or of his friends. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Thus Zimʹri annihilated the whole house of Baʹa·sha, according to the word that Jehovah had spoken against Baʹa·sha through Jeʹhu the prophet. <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> This was for all the sins that Baʹa·sha and his son Eʹlah had committed and the sins they had caused Israel to commit by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their worthless idols. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Eʹlah, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos94197"></span><span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In the 27th year of King Aʹsa of Judah, Zimʹri became king for seven days in Tirʹzah while the troops were camped against Gibʹbe·thon, which belonged to the Phi·lisʹtines. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> In time the troops who were encamped heard it being said: “Zimʹri has conspired and has also struck down the king.” So all Israel made Omʹri, the chief of the army, king over Israel on that day in the camp. <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Omʹri and all Israel with him went up from Gibʹbe·thon and laid siege to Tirʹzah. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When Zimʹri saw that the city had been captured, he went into the fortified tower of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> and burned the house down over himself, and he died. <span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> This was for his own sins that he had committed by doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah by walking in the way of Jer·o·boʹam and for the sin he had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Zimʹri and his conspiracy, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="pos95180"></span><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> It was then that the people of Israel were divided into two factions. One part of the people became followers of Tibʹni the son of Giʹnath, wanting to make him king, and the other part followed Omʹri. <span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But the people who were following Omʹri prevailed over the people following Tibʹni the son of Giʹnath. So Tibʹni died, and Omʹri became king.</p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> In the 31st year of King Aʹsa of Judah, Omʹri became king over Israel, and he reigned for 12 years. In Tirʹzah he reigned for six years. <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He <span id="page511" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="511" data-before-text="511"></span>bought the mountain of Sa·marʹi·a from Sheʹmer for two talents<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> of silver, and he built a city on the mountain. He named the city that he built Sa·marʹi·a,<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> after Sheʹmer the owner<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> of the mountain. <span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Omʹri kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he was worse than all who were prior to him. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He walked in all the ways of Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat and in the sin he had caused Israel to commit by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their worthless idols. <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Omʹri, what he did and his mighty exploits, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then Omʹri was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in Sa·marʹi·a; and his son Aʹhab became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="pos96483"></span><span id="chapter16_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Aʹhab the son of Omʹri became king over Israel in the 38th year of King Aʹsa of Judah, and Aʹhab the son of Omʹri reigned over Israel in Sa·marʹi·a for 22 years. <span id="chapter16_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Aʹhab the son of Omʹri was worse in the eyes of Jehovah than all those who were prior to him. <span id="chapter16_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> As if it were a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jer·o·boʹam the son of Neʹbat, he also took as wife Jezʹe·bel the daughter of Eth·baʹal, the king of the Si·doʹni·ans, and began to serve Baʹal and to bow down to him. <span id="chapter16_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Further, he set up an altar to Baʹal at the house<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> of Baʹal that he built in Sa·marʹi·a. <span id="chapter16_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Aʹhab also made the sacred pole.<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> Aʹhab did more to offend Jehovah the God of Israel than all the kings of Israel prior to him.</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="pos97227"></span><span id="chapter16_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> In his days, Hiʹel the Bethʹel·ite rebuilt Jerʹi·cho. At the cost of A·biʹram his firstborn he laid its foundation, and at the cost of Seʹgub his youngest he put up its doors, according to the word of Jehovah spoken through Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:7</span></a> That is, Nadab, the son of Jeroboam.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:11</span></a> Lit., “anyone urinating against a wall.” A Hebrew expression of contempt referring to males.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p id="p414" data-pid="414"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:11</span></a> Or “his avengers of blood.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p id="p415" data-pid="415"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:18</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p id="p416" data-pid="416"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p id="p417" data-pid="417"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> Meaning “Belonging to the Clan Shemer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p418" data-pid="418"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> Lit., “lord.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:32</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061115-split16.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:33</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
