<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_19.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="pos60313"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>The two angels arrived at Sodʹom by evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodʹom. When Lot saw them, he got up to meet them and bowed down with his face to the earth. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he said: “Please, my lords, turn aside, please, into the house of your servant and stay overnight and have your feet washed. Then you may get up early and travel on your way.” To this they said: “No, we will stay overnight in the public square.” <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But he was so insistent with them that they went with him to his house. Then he made a feast for them, and he baked unleavened bread, and they ate.</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Before they could lie down to sleep, the men of the city—the men of Sodʹom from boy to old man, all of them—surrounded the house in one mob. <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And they kept calling out to Lot and saying to him: “Where are the men who came in to you tonight? Bring them out to us so that we may have sex with them.”</p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Lot went out to them to the doorway, and he shut the door behind him. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He said: “Please, my brothers, do not act wickedly. <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Please, here I have two daughters who have never had sexual relations with a man. Please, let me bring them out to you for you to do to them whatever seems good to you. But do not do anything to these men, for they have come under the shelter<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> of my roof.” <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At this they said: “Stand back!” And they added: “This lone foreigner came to live here, and yet he dares to judge us! Now we are going to do worse to you than to them.” And they crowded in<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> on Lot and moved forward to break down the door. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the men reached out their hands and brought Lot into the house with them, and they shut the door. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But they struck the men who were at the entrance of the house with blindness, from the least to the greatest, so that they wore themselves out trying to find the doorway.</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="pos62130"></span><span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the men said to Lot: “Do you have anyone else here? Sons-in-law, your sons, your daughters, and all your people in the city, bring out of this place! <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For we are going to destroy this place, because the outcry against them has indeed grown great<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> before Jehovah, so that Jehovah sent us to destroy the city.” <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Lot went out and began to speak to his sons-in-law who were to marry his daughters, and he kept saying: “Get up! Get out of this place, because Jehovah will destroy the city!” But to his sons-in-law, he seemed to be joking.</p>
<p id="p161" data-pid="161" class="p161 sb"><span id="page64" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="64" data-before-text="64"></span><span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> As dawn was breaking, the angels became urgent with Lot, saying: “Get up! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here with you, so that you will not be swept away in the error of the city!” <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When he kept lingering, then because of Jehovah’s compassion for him, the men seized hold of his hand and the hand of his wife and the hands of his two daughters, and they brought him out and stationed him outside the city. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> As soon as they had brought them to the outskirts, he said: “Escape for your life!<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> Do not look behind you and do not stand still in any part of the district! Escape to the mountainous region so that you may not be swept away!”</p>
<p id="p162" data-pid="162" class="p162 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Lot said to them: “Not there, please, Jehovah! <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Please, now, your servant has found favor in your eyes and you are showing great kindness<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> to me by preserving me<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> alive, but I am not able to flee to the mountainous region because I am afraid that disaster may overtake me and I will die. <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Please, now, this town is nearby and I can flee there; it is only a small place. May I, please, escape there? It is only a small place. Then I will survive.”<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> So he said to him: “Very well, I will also show you consideration by not overthrowing the town you speak of. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Hurry! Escape there, because I cannot do anything until you arrive there!” That is why he named the town Zoʹar.<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a></p>
<p id="p163" data-pid="163" class="p163 sb"><span id="pos64083"></span><span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> The sun had risen over the land when Lot arrived at Zoʹar. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then Jehovah made it rain sulfur and fire on Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah—it came from Jehovah, from the heavens. <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So he overthrew these cities, yes, the entire district, including all the inhabitants of the cities and the plants of the ground. <span id="pos64401"></span><span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But Lot’s wife, who was behind him, began to look back, and she became a pillar of salt.</p>
<p id="p164" data-pid="164" class="p164 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Now Abraham got up early in the morning and went to the place where he had stood before Jehovah. <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When he looked down toward Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah and all the land of the district, he saw quite a sight. There was dense smoke rising from the land like the dense smoke of a kiln! <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So when God destroyed the cities of the district, God kept Abraham in mind by sending Lot out from the cities he overthrew, the cities where Lot had been dwelling.</p>
<p id="p165" data-pid="165" class="p165 sb"><span id="pos64963"></span><span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Later Lot went up from Zoʹar with his two daughters and began living in the mountainous region, because he was afraid to live in Zoʹar. So he began living in a cave with his two daughters. <span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And the firstborn said to the younger: “Our father is old, and there is not a man in the land to have relations with us according to the custom of the whole earth. <span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Come, let us give our father wine to drink, and let us lie down with him and preserve offspring from our father.”</p>
<p id="p166" data-pid="166" class="p166 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So that night they kept giving their father wine to drink; then the firstborn went in and lay down with her father, but he did not know when she lay down and when she got up. <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Then on the next day, the firstborn said to the younger: “Here I lay down with my father last night. Let us give him wine to drink tonight also. Then you go in and lie down with him, and let us preserve offspring from our father.” <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> So that night also, they repeatedly gave their father wine <span id="page65" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="65" data-before-text="65"></span>to drink; then the younger went and lay down with him, but he did not know when she lay down and when she got up. <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> So both daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father. <span id="pos66116"></span><span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> The firstborn gave birth to a son and named him Moʹab. He is the father of the Moʹab·ites of today. <span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> The younger also gave birth to a son, and she named him Ben-amʹmi. He is the father of the Amʹmon·ites of today.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p603" data-pid="603"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:8</span></a> Or “protection.” Lit., “shadow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p604" data-pid="604"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:9</span></a> Or “pressed heavily.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p605" data-pid="605"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:13</span></a> Or “loud.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p606" data-pid="606"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:17</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p607" data-pid="607"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:19</span></a> Or “loyal love.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p608" data-pid="608"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:19</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p609" data-pid="609"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:20</span></a> Or “my soul will live on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p610" data-pid="610"><a href="1001061105-split19.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 19:22</span></a> Meaning “Smallness.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
