<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ephesians 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061153"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ephesians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav49.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav49_1.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1563" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1563" data-before-text="1563"></span><strong>TO THE EPHESIANS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos67"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through God’s will, to the holy ones who are in Ephʹe·sus and are faithful in union with Christ Jesus:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos302"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Praised be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, <span id="page1564" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1564" data-before-text="1564"></span>for he has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in union with Christ, <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> as he chose us to be in union with him<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> before the founding of the world, that we should be holy and unblemished before him in love. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For he foreordained us to be adopted as his own sons through Jesus Christ, according to his good pleasure and will, <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> in praise of his glorious undeserved kindness that he kindly bestowed on us by means of his beloved one. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> By means of him we have the release by ransom through the blood of that one, yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his undeserved kindness.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1012"></span><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> This undeserved kindness he caused to abound toward us in all wisdom and understanding<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> by making known to us the sacred secret of his will. It is according to his good pleasure that he himself purposed <span id="pos1224"></span><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> for an administration<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> at the full limit of the appointed times, to gather all things together in the Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth. Yes, in him <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> with whom we are in union and were assigned as heirs, having been foreordained according to the purpose of the one who accomplishes all things as he decides according to his will, <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> so that we who have been first to hope in the Christ should serve for the praise of his glory. <span id="pos1698"></span><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But you also hoped in him after you heard the word of truth, the good news about your salvation. After you believed, you were sealed by means of him with the promised holy spirit, <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> which is a token in advance<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> of our inheritance, for the purpose of releasing God’s own possession by a ransom, to his glorious praise.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2032"></span><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> That is why I also, since I have heard of the faith that you have in the Lord Jesus and the love that you demonstrate toward all the holy ones, <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> never stop giving thanks for you. I continue mentioning you in my prayers, <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the accurate knowledge of him. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He has enlightened the eyes of your heart, so that you may know to what hope he called you, what glorious riches he holds as an inheritance for the holy ones, <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and how surpassing the greatness of his power is toward us believers. It is according to the operation of the mightiness of his strength, <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> which he exercised toward Christ when he raised him up from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> far above every government and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named, not only in this system of things<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> but also in that to come. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> He also subjected all things under his feet and made him head over all things with regard to the congregation, <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> which is his body, the fullness of him who fills up all things in all.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061153.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 1:4</span></a> That is, with Christ.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061153.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 1:8</span></a> Or “good sense.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061153.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 1:10</span></a> Or “to administer things.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p38" data-pid="38"><a href="1001061153.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 1:14</span></a> Or “a down payment (earnest money); a guarantee (pledge) of what is to come.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p39" data-pid="39"><a href="1001061153.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eph. 1:21</span></a> Or “this age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
