<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_20.xhtml">1 - 49</a></p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="pos72553"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>Now in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, some of the elders of Israel came and sat down before me to inquire of Jehovah. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying: <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Son of man, speak with the elders of Israel, and tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Are you coming to inquire of me? ‘As surely as I am alive, I will not respond to your inquiry,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’</p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Are you ready to judge them?<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> Are you ready to judge them, son of man? Make them know the detestable things that their forefathers did. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “In the day I chose Israel, I also swore<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> to the offspring<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> of the house of Jacob, and I made myself known to them in the land of Egypt. Yes, I swore to them and said, ‘I am Jehovah your God.’ <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In that day I swore that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt to a land that I had searched out<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> for them, one flowing with milk and honey. It was the most beautiful<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> of all the lands. <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> I then said to them, ‘Each of you must throw away the detestable things that are before your eyes; do not defile yourselves with the disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> of Egypt. I am Jehovah your God.’</p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘“But they rebelled against me and were not willing to listen to me. They did not throw away the detestable things that were before them, and they would not abandon the disgusting idols of Egypt. So I promised to pour out my rage on them and to unleash my anger fully against them in the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But I acted for the sake of my name so that it would not be profaned before the nations among whom they were living. For I made myself known to them<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> before these nations when I brought them<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> out of the land of Egypt. <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So I brought them out of the land of Egypt and led them into the wilderness.</p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “‘“I then gave them my statutes and made my judicial decisions known to them, so that the man who follows them may have life by them. <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> I also gave my sabbaths to them as a sign between me and them, so that they would know that I, Jehovah, am the one sanctifying them.</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “‘“But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes, and they rejected my judicial decisions, which if a man follows them, he will have life by them. They utterly profaned my sabbaths. So I promised to pour out my fury on them in the wilderness to exterminate them. <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I acted for the sake of my own name so <span id="page1158" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1158" data-before-text="1158"></span>that it would not be profaned before the nations, in whose sight I brought them<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> out. <span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I also swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them—a land flowing with milk and honey, the most beautiful<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> of all the lands— <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> because they rejected my judicial decisions, they did not walk in my statutes, and they profaned my sabbaths, for their heart was following after their disgusting idols.</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “‘“But I<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> felt sorry for them, and I did not destroy them; I did not exterminate them in the wilderness. <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I said to their sons in the wilderness, ‘Do not walk in the regulations of your forefathers or keep their judgments or defile yourselves with their disgusting idols. <span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> I am Jehovah your God. Walk in my statutes, and keep my judicial decisions, and carry them out. <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And sanctify my sabbaths, and they will serve as a sign between me and you for you to know that I am Jehovah your God.’</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘“But the sons began to rebel against me. They did not walk in my statutes, and they did not observe and carry out my judicial decisions, which if a man follows them, he will have life by them. My sabbaths they profaned. So I promised to pour out my rage on them and to unleash my anger against them fully in the wilderness. <span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But I refrained and acted for the sake of my own name, so that it should not be profaned before the nations, in whose sight I brought them<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> out. <span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Also, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them among the lands, <span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> because they did not carry out my judicial decisions and they rejected my statutes, they profaned my sabbaths, and they followed after<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> the disgusting idols of their forefathers. <span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> I also allowed them to follow regulations that were not good and judicial decisions by which they could not have life. <span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I let them become defiled by their own sacrifices—when they made every firstborn child pass through the fire—in order to make them desolate, so that they would know that I am Jehovah.”’</p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “So speak to the house of Israel, O son of man, and tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “In this way also, your forefathers blasphemed me by acting unfaithfully against me. <span id="chapter20_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> I brought them into the land that I swore to give them. When they saw all the high hills and leafy trees, they began offering their sacrifices and their offensive offerings. They presented the pleasing<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> aromas of their sacrifices and poured out their drink offerings there. <span id="chapter20_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So I asked them, ‘What is the meaning of this high place to which you go? (It is still called High Place to this day.)’”’</p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “Now say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Are you defiling yourselves the same way your forefathers did by going after their disgusting idols to commit spiritual prostitution with them? <span id="chapter20_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> And are you still defiling yourselves to this day by offering sacrifices to all your disgusting idols, making your sons pass through the fire? Should I at the same time respond <span id="page1159" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1159" data-before-text="1159"></span>to your inquiry, O house of Israel?”’</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb">“‘As surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will not respond to your inquiry. <span id="chapter20_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And what you have in mind<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> when you say, “Let us become like the nations, like the families of the other lands, who worship<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> wood and stone,” it will never happen.’”</p>
<p id="p178" data-pid="178" class="p178 sb"><span id="pos78504"></span><span id="chapter20_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “‘As surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will rule as king over you with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with an outpouring of rage. <span id="chapter20_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> I will bring you out from the peoples and collect you together out of the lands where you have been scattered with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with an outpouring of rage. <span id="chapter20_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples and enter into judgment with you there face-to-face.</p>
<p id="p179" data-pid="179" class="p179 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> “‘Just as I entered into judgment with your forefathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <span id="chapter20_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> ‘I will make you pass under the shepherd’s staff and bring you under obligation to<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a> the covenant. <span id="chapter20_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But I will remove from you the rebels and those transgressing against me. For I will bring them out of the land of their foreign residence, but they will not enter the land of Israel; and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> “As for you, O house of Israel, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Each of you go and serve his disgusting idols. But afterward if you do not listen to me, you will no longer be able to profane my holy name by your sacrifices and your disgusting idols.’</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> “‘For in my holy mountain, on a high mountain of Israel,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘is where the whole house of Israel, all of them, will serve me in the land. I will take pleasure in them there, and I will require your contributions and the firstfruits of your offerings, all your holy things. <span id="chapter20_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Because of the pleasing<span id="footnotesource149"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote149">*</a> aroma, I will take pleasure in you when I bring you out from the peoples and collect you together from the lands to which you have been scattered; and I will be sanctified among you before the eyes of the nations.’</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> “‘And you will have to know that I am Jehovah when I bring you to the land of Israel, into the land that I swore to give to your forefathers. <span id="chapter20_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And there you will remember your conduct and all your deeds by which you defiled yourselves, and you will loathe yourselves<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> because of all the bad things that you did. <span id="chapter20_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Then you will have to know that I am Jehovah when I deal with you for the sake of my name, not according to your wicked conduct or according to your corrupted dealings, O house of Israel,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="pos80919"></span><span id="chapter20_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter20_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> “Son of man, turn your face in the direction of the southern quarter and proclaim to the south, and prophesy to the forest of the field of the south. <span id="chapter20_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Say to the forest of the south, ‘Hear the word of Jehovah. This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am setting a fire ablaze against <span id="page1160" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1160" data-before-text="1160"></span>you, and it will consume every green tree and every dry tree in you. The burning flame will not be extinguished, and every face will be scorched by it, from south to north. <span id="chapter20_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> And all flesh<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> will see that I myself, Jehovah, have set it afire, so that it will not be extinguished.”’”</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> And I said: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah! They are saying about me, ‘Is he not just speaking in riddles?’”<span id="footnotesource152"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote152">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p722" data-pid="722"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:4</span></a> Or “to pronounce judgment on them?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p723" data-pid="723"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:5</span></a> Lit., “raised my hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p724" data-pid="724"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:5</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p725" data-pid="725"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:6</span></a> Or “spied out.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p726" data-pid="726"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:6</span></a> Or “the decoration.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p727" data-pid="727"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:7</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p728" data-pid="728"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:9</span></a> That is, Israel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p729" data-pid="729"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:9</span></a> That is, Israel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p730" data-pid="730"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:14</span></a> That is, Israel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p731" data-pid="731"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:15</span></a> Or “the decoration.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p732" data-pid="732"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:17</span></a> Lit., “my eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p733" data-pid="733"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:22</span></a> That is, Israel.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p734" data-pid="734"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:24</span></a> Lit., “their eyes were after.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p735" data-pid="735"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:28</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p736" data-pid="736"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:32</span></a> Lit., “spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p id="p737" data-pid="737"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:32</span></a> Or “minister to; serve.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p id="p738" data-pid="738"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:37</span></a> Lit., “into the bond of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote149"><p id="p739" data-pid="739"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource149">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:41</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p id="p740" data-pid="740"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:43</span></a> Lit., “your faces.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p id="p741" data-pid="741"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:48</span></a> Or “people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote152"><p id="p742" data-pid="742"><a href="1001061130-split20.xhtml#footnotesource152">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 20:49</span></a> Or “proverbial sayings?”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
