<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Galatians 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061152"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Galatians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav48.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav48_3.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="pos6418"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>O senseless Ga·laʹtians! Who has brought you under this evil influence, you who had Jesus Christ openly portrayed before you as nailed to the stake? <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This one thing I want to ask<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> you: Did you receive the spirit through works of law or because of faith in what you heard? <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Are you so senseless? After starting on a spiritual course,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> are you finishing on a fleshly course?<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Did you undergo so many sufferings for nothing? If it really was for nothing. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Therefore, does the one who supplies you the spirit and performs powerful works among you do it because of your works of law or because of your faith in what you heard? <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Just as Abraham “put faith in Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> and it was counted to him as righteousness.”</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Surely you know that it is those who adhere to faith who are sons of Abraham. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Now the scripture, foreseeing that God would declare people of the nations righteous through faith, declared the good news beforehand to Abraham, namely: “By means of you all the nations will be blessed.” <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So those who adhere to faith are being blessed together with Abraham, who had faith.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> All those who depend on works of law are under a curse, for it is written: “Cursed is everyone who does not remain in all the things written in the scroll of the Law by doing them.” <span id="pos7720"></span><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Moreover, it is evident that by law no one is declared righteous with God, because “the righteous one will live by reason of faith.” <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now the Law is not based on faith. Rather, “anyone who does these things will live by means of them.” <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Christ purchased us, releasing us from the curse of the Law by becoming a curse instead of us, because it is written: “Accursed is every man hung upon a stake.” <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> This was so that the blessing of Abraham would come to the nations by means of Christ Jesus, so that we might receive the promised spirit through our faith.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="pos8309"></span><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Brothers, I speak using a human illustration: Once a covenant is validated, even if only by a man, no one annuls it or attaches additions to it. <span id="pos8461"></span><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his offspring.<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> It does not say, “and to your descendants,”<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> in the sense of many. Rather, it says, “and to your offspring,”<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> in the sense of one, who is Christ. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Further, I say this: The Law, which came into being 430 years later, does not invalidate the covenant previously made by God, so as to abolish the promise. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on a promise; but God has kindly given it to Abraham through a promise.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos8983"></span><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Why, then, the Law? It was added to make transgressions manifest, until the offspring<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> should arrive to whom the promise had been made; and it was transmitted through angels by the hand of a mediator. <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now there is no mediator when just one person is involved, but God is only one. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Is the Law, therefore, against the promises of God? Certainly <span id="page1560" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1560" data-before-text="1560"></span>not! For if a law had been given that could give life, righteousness would actually have been by means of law. <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But the Scripture handed all things over to the custody of sin, so that the promise resulting from faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those exercising faith.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> However, before the faith arrived, we were being guarded under law, being handed over into custody, looking to the faith that was about to be revealed. <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So the Law became our guardian<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> leading to Christ, so that we might be declared righteous through faith. <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> But now that the faith has arrived, we are no longer under a guardian.<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a></p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="pos9991"></span><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> You are all, in fact, sons of God through your faith in Christ Jesus. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor freeman, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in union with Christ Jesus. <span id="pos10304"></span><span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moreover, if you belong to Christ, you are really Abraham’s offspring,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> heirs with reference to a promise.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p58" data-pid="58"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:2</span></a> Lit., “learn from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p59" data-pid="59"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:3</span></a> Lit., “starting in spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p60" data-pid="60"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:3</span></a> Lit., “being completed in the flesh?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p61" data-pid="61"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p62" data-pid="62"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:16</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p63" data-pid="63"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:16</span></a> Lit., “seeds.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p64" data-pid="64"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:16</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p65" data-pid="65"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:19</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p66" data-pid="66"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:24</span></a> Or “tutor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p67" data-pid="67"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:25</span></a> Or “tutor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p68" data-pid="68"><a href="1001061152-split3.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gal. 3:29</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
