<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_15.xhtml">1 - 58</a></p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="pos46147"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>Now I remind you, brothers, of the good news that I declared to you, which you <span id="page1541" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1541" data-before-text="1541"></span>also accepted, and for which you have taken your stand. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Through it you are also being saved if you hold firmly to the good news I declared to you, unless you became believers for nothing.</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For among the first things I handed on to you was what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures; <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and that he was buried, yes, that he was raised up on the third day according to the Scriptures; <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and that he appeared to Ceʹphas,<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> and then to the Twelve. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> After that he appeared to more than 500 brothers at one time, most of whom are still with us, though some have fallen asleep in death. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> After that he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But last of all he appeared also to me as if to one born prematurely.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy of being called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But by God’s undeserved kindness I am what I am. And his undeserved kindness to me was not in vain, but I labored more than all of them; yet it was not I, but the undeserved kindness of God that is with me. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Whether, then, it is I or they, this is the way we preach, and this is the way you believed.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="pos47461"></span><span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now if it is being preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how is it that some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> If, indeed, there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not been raised up. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But if Christ has not been raised up, our preaching is certainly in vain, and your faith is also in vain. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Moreover, we are also found to be false witnesses of God, because we have given witness against God by saying that he raised up the Christ, whom he did not raise up if the dead are really not to be raised up. <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> For if the dead are not to be raised up, neither has Christ been raised up. <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Further, if Christ has not been raised up, your faith is useless; you remain in your sins. <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then also those who have fallen asleep in death in union with Christ have perished. <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are to be pitied more than anyone.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos48401"></span><span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep in death. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For since death came through a man, resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> For just as in Adam all are dying, so also in the Christ all will be made alive. <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But each one in his own proper order: Christ the firstfruits, afterward those who belong to the Christ during his presence. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Next, the end, when he hands over the Kingdom to his God and Father, when he has brought to nothing all government and all authority and power. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For he must rule as king until God has put all enemies under his feet. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And the last enemy, death, is to be brought to nothing. <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For God “subjected all things under his feet.” But when he says that ‘all things have been subjected,’ it is evident that this does not include the One who subjected all things to him. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But when all things will have been subjected to him, then the Son himself will also subject himself to the One who subjected all things to him, that God may be all things to everyone.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="page1542" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1542" data-before-text="1542"></span><span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Otherwise, what will they do who are being baptized for the purpose of being dead ones? If the dead are not to be raised up at all, why are they also being baptized for the purpose of being such? <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Why are we also in danger every hour?<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Daily I face death. This is as sure as my exultation over you, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. <span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> If like other men,<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> I have fought with wild beasts at Ephʹe·sus, of what good is it to me? If the dead are not to be raised up, “let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we are to die.” <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Do not be misled. Bad associations spoil useful habits.<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Come to your senses in a righteous way and do not practice sin, for some have no knowledge of God. I am speaking to move you to shame.</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos50284"></span><span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Nevertheless, someone will say: “How are the dead to be raised up? Yes, with what sort of body are they coming?” <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> You unreasonable person! What you sow is not made alive unless first it dies. <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And as for what you sow, you sow, not the body that will develop, but just a bare grain, whether of wheat or of some other kind of seed; <span id="chapter15_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> but God gives it a body just as it has pleased him, and gives to each of the seeds its own body. <span id="chapter15_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Not all flesh is the same flesh, but there is one of mankind, there is another flesh of cattle, another flesh of birds, and another of fish. <span id="chapter15_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly bodies is one sort, and that of the earthly bodies is a different sort. <span id="chapter15_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> The glory of the sun is one sort, and the glory of the moon is another, and the glory of the stars is another; in fact, one star differs from another star in glory.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> So it is with the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised up in incorruption. <span id="chapter15_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> It is sown in dishonor; it is raised up in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised up in power. <span id="chapter15_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> It is sown a physical body; it is raised up a spiritual body. If there is a physical body, there is also a spiritual one. <span id="chapter15_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> So it is written: “The first man Adam became a living person.”<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. <span id="chapter15_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> However, what is spiritual is not first. What is physical is first, and afterward what is spiritual. <span id="chapter15_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> The first man is from the earth and made of dust; the second man is from heaven. <span id="chapter15_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Like the one made of dust, so too are those made of dust; and like the heavenly one, so too are those who are heavenly. <span id="chapter15_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> And just as we have borne the image of the one made of dust, we will bear also the image of the heavenly one.</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos52118"></span><span id="chapter15_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> But I tell you this, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit God’s Kingdom, nor does corruption inherit incorruption. <span id="chapter15_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Look! I tell you a sacred secret: We will not all fall asleep in death, but we will all be changed, <span id="chapter15_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> in a moment, in the blink<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> of an eye, during the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised up incorruptible, and we will be changed. <span id="chapter15_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> For this which is corruptible must put on incorruption, and this which is mortal must put on immortality. <span id="chapter15_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> But when this which is corruptible puts on incorruption and this which is mortal puts on immortality, then the saying that is written <span id="page1543" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1543" data-before-text="1543"></span>will take place: “Death is swallowed up forever.” <span id="chapter15_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> “Death, where is your victory? Death, where is your sting?” <span id="chapter15_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> The sting producing death is sin, and the power for sin is the Law.<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> But thanks to God, for he gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos53069"></span><span id="chapter15_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p209" data-pid="209"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:5</span></a> Also called Peter.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p210" data-pid="210"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:30</span></a> Or “all the time?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p211" data-pid="211"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:32</span></a> Or possibly, “from a human viewpoint.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p212" data-pid="212"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:33</span></a> Or “corrupt good morals.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p213" data-pid="213"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:45</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p214" data-pid="214"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:52</span></a> Or “twinkling.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p215" data-pid="215"><a href="1001061150-split15.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 15:56</span></a> Or “and the Law gives sin its power.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
