<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061142"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_3.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="pos5124"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>And he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Jehovah, and Satan was standing at his right hand to resist him. <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the angel of Jehovah said to Satan: “May Jehovah rebuke you, O Satan, yes, may Jehovah, who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you! Is not this one a burning log snatched out of the fire?”</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now Joshua was clothed in filthy garments and standing before the angel. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The angel said to those standing before him, “Remove his filthy garments.” Then he said to him, “See, I have caused your error<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> to pass away from you, and you will be clothed with fine garments.”<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a></p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So I said: “Let a clean turban be put on his head.” And they put the clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments; and the angel of Jehovah was standing nearby. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The angel of Jehovah then declared to Joshua: <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘If you will walk in my ways and carry out your responsibilities before me, then you will serve as a judge in my house and take care of<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> my courtyards; and I will give you free access among these who are standing here.’</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="page1289" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1289" data-before-text="1289"></span><span id="pos6221"></span><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “‘Hear, please, O High Priest Joshua, you and your companions who sit before you, for these men serve as a sign; look! I am bringing in my servant Sprout! <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> See the stone that I have set before Joshua! On the one stone are seven eyes; and I am engraving an inscription on it,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘and I will take away the guilt of that land in one day.’</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘In that day,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘each of you will invite your neighbor to come under your vine and under your fig tree.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p165" data-pid="165"><a href="1001061142-split3.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 3:4</span></a> Or “guilt.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p166" data-pid="166"><a href="1001061142-split3.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 3:4</span></a> Or “with robes of state.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p167" data-pid="167"><a href="1001061142-split3.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 3:7</span></a> Or “have charge of; guard.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
