<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_9.xhtml">1 - 62</a></p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="pos52468"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>Then he called the Twelve together and gave them power and authority over all the demons and to cure diseases. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he sent them out to preach the Kingdom of God and to heal, <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and he said to them: “Carry nothing for the trip, neither staff nor food pouch nor bread nor money;<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> neither have <span id="page1395" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1395" data-before-text="1395"></span>two garments.<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But wherever you enter into a home, stay there and leave from there. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And wherever people do not receive you, on going out of that city, shake the dust off your feet for a witness against them.” <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then starting out, they went through the territory from village to village, declaring the good news and performing cures everywhere.</p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos53130"></span><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now Herod<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> the district ruler<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> heard about everything that was happening, and he was greatly perplexed because some were saying that John had been raised up from the dead, <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> but others were saying that E·liʹjah had appeared, and still others that one of the ancient prophets had risen. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Herod said: “John I beheaded. Who, then, is this about whom I am hearing such things?” So he was trying to see him.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="pos53548"></span><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When the apostles returned, they reported to Jesus all they had done. With that he took them along and withdrew privately into a city called Beth·saʹi·da. <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But the crowds, getting to know it, followed him. And he received them kindly and began to speak to them about the Kingdom of God, and he healed those needing a cure. <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the day was coming to a close. The Twelve now came up and said to him: “Send the crowd away, so that they may go into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and provisions, because out here we are in an isolated place.” <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But he said to them: “You give them something to eat.” They said: “We have nothing more than five loaves and two fish, unless perhaps we ourselves go and buy food for all these people.” <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> There were, in fact, about 5,000 men. But he said to his disciples: “Have them sit down in groups of about 50 each.” <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And they did so and had them all sit down. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Taking now the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and blessed them. Then he broke them up and began giving them to the disciples to set before the crowd. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So they all ate and were satisfied, and they took up the leftovers, 12 baskets of fragments.</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="pos54780"></span><span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Later, while he was praying alone, the disciples came to him, and he questioned them, saying: “Who are the crowds saying that I am?” <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In reply they said: “John the Baptist, but others say E·liʹjah, and still others say that one of the ancient prophets has risen.” <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then he said to them: “You, though, who do you say I am?” Peter answered: “The Christ of God.” <span id="pos55162"></span><span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then in a stern talk to them, he instructed them not to tell this to anybody, <span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> but he said: “The Son of man must undergo many sufferings and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and on the third day be raised up.”</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="pos55433"></span><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then he went on to say to all: “If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> day after day and keep following me. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For whoever wants to save his life<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> will lose it, but whoever loses his life<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> for my sake is the one who will save it. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Really, what good will it do a man if he gains the whole world but loses his own self or suffers ruin? <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For whoever becomes ashamed of me and of my words, the Son of man will <span id="page1396" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1396" data-before-text="1396"></span>be ashamed of that person when he comes in his glory and that of the Father and of the holy angels. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> But I tell you truly, there are some of those standing here who will not taste death at all until first they see the Kingdom of God.”</p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos56161"></span><span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> In fact, about eight days after saying these words, he took Peter, John, and James along and climbed up the mountain to pray. <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And as he was praying, the appearance of his face changed and his clothing became glitteringly white. <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And look! two men were conversing with him; they were Moses and E·liʹjah. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> These appeared with glory and began talking about his departure, which he was about to fulfill at Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now Peter and those with him were weighed down with sleep, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And as these were departing from him, Peter said to Jesus: “Instructor, it is fine for us to be here. So let us erect three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for E·liʹjah.” He did not realize what he was saying. <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But as he was saying these things, a cloud formed and began to overshadow them. As they entered into the cloud, they became afraid. <span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Then a voice came out of the cloud, saying: “This is my Son, the one who has been chosen. Listen to him.” <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> As the voice spoke, Jesus was found alone. But they kept quiet and did not report to anyone in those days any of the things they saw.</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos57380"></span><span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> The following day when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him. <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And look! a man called out from the crowd, saying: “Teacher, I beg you to take a look at my son, because he is my only one. <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> And look! a spirit seizes him, and suddenly he cries out, and it throws him into convulsions with foaming at the mouth, and only with difficulty does it leave him after bruising him. <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> I begged your disciples to expel it, but they could not.” <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> In response Jesus said: “O faithless and twisted generation, how long must I continue with you and put up with you? Bring your son over here.” <span id="chapter9_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> But even as he was approaching, the demon hurled him to the ground and violently threw him into a convulsion. However, Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father. <span id="pos58216"></span><span id="chapter9_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And they were all astounded at the majestic power of God.</p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb">While they were all astonished at all the things he was doing, he said to his disciples: <span id="chapter9_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> “Listen carefully and remember these words, for the Son of man is going to be betrayed into men’s hands.” <span id="chapter9_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> But they did not understand what he was saying. In fact, it was concealed from them so that they might not grasp it, and they were afraid to question him about this saying.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos58664"></span><span id="chapter9_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Then a dispute arose among them about which one of them was the greatest. <span id="chapter9_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a young child, stood him beside him, <span id="chapter9_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> and said to them: “Whoever receives this young child on the basis of my name receives me also; and whoever receives me also receives the One who sent me. For the one who conducts himself as a lesser one among all of you is the one who is great.”</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos59096"></span><span id="chapter9_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> In response John said: “Instructor, we saw someone expelling demons by using your name, and we tried to prevent him, because he is not following with us.” <span id="chapter9_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> But Jesus said to him: <span id="page1397" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1397" data-before-text="1397"></span>“Do not try to prevent him, for whoever is not against you is for you.”</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos59366"></span><span id="chapter9_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> As the days were drawing near<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> for him to be taken up, he resolutely set his face to go to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> So he sent messengers ahead of him. And they went and entered a village of Sa·marʹi·tans to make preparations for him. <span id="chapter9_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> But they did not receive him, because he was determined<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> to go to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter9_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> When the disciples James and John saw this, they said: “Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven and annihilate them?” <span id="chapter9_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> But he turned and rebuked them. <span id="chapter9_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> So they went to a different village.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos59906"></span><span id="chapter9_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57</sup></strong> Now as they were going along the road, someone said to him: “I will follow you wherever you go.” <span id="chapter9_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58</sup></strong> But Jesus said to him: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.” <span id="chapter9_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59</sup></strong> Then he said to another: “Be my follower.” The man said: “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” <span id="chapter9_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60</sup></strong> But he said to him: “Let the dead bury their dead, but you go and declare abroad the Kingdom of God.” <span id="chapter9_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61</sup></strong> And still another said: “I will follow you, Lord, but first permit me to say good-bye to those in my household.” <span id="chapter9_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “No man who has put his hand to a plow and looks at the things behind is well-suited for the Kingdom of God.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:3</span></a> Lit., “silver.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:3</span></a> Or “an extra garment.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:7</span></a> That is, Herod Antipas. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos44070">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:7</span></a> Lit., “the tetrarch.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:23</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:24</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:24</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:51</span></a> Lit., “coming to the full.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061146-split9.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 9:53</span></a> Lit., “his face was set.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
