<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_17.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos69375"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>A·hithʹo·phel then said to Abʹsa·lom: “Please let me choose 12,000 men and rise up and chase after David tonight. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I will come upon him when he is weary and powerless,<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> and I will throw him into a panic; and all the people who are with him will flee, and I will strike down only the king. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then I will bring all the people back to you. The return of all the people depends on what happens with the man you are seeking. Then all the people will be at peace.” <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The proposal was just right in the eyes of Abʹsa·lom and all the elders of Israel.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> However, Abʹsa·lom said: “Please call Huʹshai the Arʹchite as well, and let us hear what he has to say.” <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Huʹshai came in to Abʹsa·lom. Then Abʹsa·lom said to him: “This is the advice A·hithʹo·phel gave. Should we act on his advice? If not, you tell us.” <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At this Huʹshai said to Abʹsa·lom: “The advice that A·hithʹo·phel gave is not good in this instance!”</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Huʹshai continued: “You well know that your father and his men are mighty, and they are desperate,<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> like a bear that has lost her cubs in the field. Moreover, your father is a warrior, and he will not spend the night with the people. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> At this very moment he is hiding in one of the caves<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> or in some other place; and if he attacks first, those hearing of it will say, ‘The people following Abʹsa·lom have been defeated!’ <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Even the courageous man whose heart is like that of a lion will surely melt in fear, for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man and that the men with him are courageous. <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> I give this advice: Let all Israel be gathered to you, from Dan to Beʹer-sheʹba, as many as the grains of sand by the sea, and you should lead them into the fight. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> We will come against him wherever he is found, and we will come upon him just like the dew that falls on the ground; and not one of them will survive, not he nor any of the men with him. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> If he retreats into a city, all Israel will carry ropes to that city, and we will drag it down into the valley until not even a pebble is left.”</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Abʹsa·lom and all the men of Israel said: “The advice of Huʹshai the Arʹchite is better than the advice of A·hithʹo·phel!” For Jehovah had determined<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> to frustrate the sound advice of A·hithʹo·phel, so that <span id="page465" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="465" data-before-text="465"></span>Jehovah could bring disaster on Abʹsa·lom.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="pos71712"></span><span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Huʹshai later said to Zaʹdok and A·biʹa·thar the priests: “This is what A·hithʹo·phel has advised Abʹsa·lom and the elders of Israel, and this is what I have advised. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now quickly send word to David and warn him: ‘Do not stay at the fords<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> of the wilderness tonight, but cross over without fail, or the king and all the people with him may be wiped out.’”<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a></p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Jonʹa·than and A·himʹa·az were staying at En-roʹgel; so a servant girl went off and told them and they went to tell King David, for they did not dare to be seen entering the city. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, a young man saw them and told Abʹsa·lom. So the two of them quickly went off and came to the house of a man in Ba·huʹrim who had a well in his courtyard. They went down into it, <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and the man’s wife spread a covering over the top of the well and covered it with cracked grain; no one knew about it. <span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The servants of Abʹsa·lom came to the woman at her house and asked: “Where are A·himʹa·az and Jonʹa·than?” The woman replied: “They passed by toward the water.” Then the men searched for them but did not find them, so they returned to Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> After the men were gone, they came up out of the well and went and informed King David. They said to him: “Rise up and quickly cross the water, for this is what A·hithʹo·phel advised against you.” <span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Immediately David and all the people with him rose up and crossed the Jordan. By daybreak, there was no one left who had not crossed the Jordan.</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When A·hithʹo·phel saw that his advice had not been acted on, he saddled a donkey and went to his house in his hometown. After he gave instructions to his household, he hanged<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> himself. So he died and was buried in the burial place of his forefathers.</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Meanwhile, David went to Ma·ha·naʹim, and Abʹsa·lom crossed the Jordan with all the men of Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Abʹsa·lom put A·maʹsa in charge of the army in place of Joʹab; A·maʹsa was the son of a man named Ithʹra the Israelite, who had relations with Abʹi·gail the daughter of Naʹhash, the sister of Ze·ruʹiah, Joʹab’s mother. <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Israel and Abʹsa·lom camped in the land of Gilʹe·ad.</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos73862"></span><span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As soon as David came to Ma·ha·naʹim, Shoʹbi the son of Naʹhash from Rabʹbah of the Amʹmon·ites, Maʹchir the son of Amʹmi·el from Lo-deʹbar, and Bar·zilʹlai the Gilʹe·ad·ite from Ro·geʹlim <span id="chapter17_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> brought beds, basins, clay pots, wheat, barley, flour, roasted grain, broad beans, lentils, parched grain, <span id="chapter17_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> honey, butter, sheep, and cheese.<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> They brought all of this out for David and the people with him to eat, for they said: “The people are hungry and tired and thirsty in the wilderness.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p366" data-pid="366"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:2</span></a> Or “feeble in both hands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p367" data-pid="367"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:8</span></a> Or “bitter of soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p368" data-pid="368"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:9</span></a> Or “pits; ravines.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p369" data-pid="369"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:14</span></a> Or “commanded.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p370" data-pid="370"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:16</span></a> Or possibly, “the desert plains.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p371" data-pid="371"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:16</span></a> Lit., “swallowed up.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p372" data-pid="372"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:23</span></a> Or “strangled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p373" data-pid="373"><a href="1001061114-split17.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 17:29</span></a> Lit., “curds of cattle.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
