<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_20.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos99590"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>On the first day of the week, Mary Magʹda·lene came to the tomb<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> early, while it was still dark, and she saw that the stone had already been taken away from the tomb.<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So she came running to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, for whom Jesus had affection, and she said to them: “They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.”</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Peter and the other disciple set out for the tomb. <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The two of them began running together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Stooping forward, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Simon Peter also came, following him, and he went into the tomb. And he saw the linen cloths lying there. <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The cloth that had been on his head was not lying with the other cloth bands but was rolled up in a place by itself. <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in, and he saw and believed. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For they did not yet understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the disciples went back to their homes.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="pos100702"></span><span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Mary, however, kept standing outside near the tomb, weeping. While she was weeping, she stooped forward to look into the tomb, <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had been lying, one at the head and one at the feet. <span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And they said to her: “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them: “They have taken my Lord away, and I do not know where they have laid him.” <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> After saying this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus. <span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you looking for?” She, thinking it was the gardener, said to him: “Sir, <span id="page1457" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1457" data-before-text="1457"></span>if you have carried him off, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.” <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Mary!” On turning around, she said to him in Hebrew: <em>“Rab·boʹni!”</em> (which means “Teacher!”) <span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Jesus said to her: “Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father and to my God and your God.’” <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Mary Magʹda·lene came and brought the news to the disciples: “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them what he had said to her.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos101935"></span><span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> When it was late that day, the first day of the week, and the doors were locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst and said to them: “May you have peace.” <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After saying this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples rejoiced at seeing the Lord. <span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jesus said to them again: “May you have peace. Just as the Father has sent me, I also am sending you.” <span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> After saying this he blew on them and said to them: “Receive holy spirit. <span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven; if you retain those of anyone, they are retained.”</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="pos102567"></span><span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But Thomas, one of the Twelve, who was called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came. <span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So the other disciples were telling him: “We have seen the Lord!” But he said to them: “Unless I see in his hands the print<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> of the nails and stick my finger into the print of the nails and stick my hand into his side, I will never believe it.”</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Well, eight days later his disciples were again indoors, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, although the doors were locked, and he stood in their midst and said: “May you have peace.” <span id="chapter20_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Next he said to Thomas: “Put your finger here, and see my hands, and take your hand and stick it into my side, and stop doubting<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> but believe.” <span id="chapter20_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> In answer Thomas said to him: “My Lord and my God!” <span id="chapter20_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Because you have seen me, have you believed? Happy are those who have not seen and yet believe.”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos103446"></span><span id="chapter20_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> To be sure, Jesus also performed many other signs before the disciples, which are not written down in this scroll. <span id="chapter20_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But these have been written down so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and because of believing, you may have life by means of his name.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061147-split20.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 20:1</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061147-split20.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 20:1</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061147-split20.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 20:25</span></a> Or “mark.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061147-split20.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 20:27</span></a> Lit., “being unbelieving.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
