<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_19.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="pos82206"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>Saul later spoke to Jonʹa·than his son and to all his servants about putting David to death. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Since Saul’s son Jonʹa·than was very fond of David, Jonʹa·than told David: “My father Saul wants to have you put to death. Please be on your guard in the morning, and go to a secret place and remain hidden. <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> I will go out and stand next to my father in the field where you will be. I will talk about you to my father, and if I learn anything, I will be sure to tell you.”</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> So Jonʹa·than spoke well of David to his father Saul. He said to him: “The king should not sin against his servant David, for he has not sinned against you and what he has done for you has benefited you. <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He risked his life<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> to strike down the Phi·lisʹtine, so that Jehovah brought about a great victory<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> for all Israel. You saw it, and you were overjoyed. So why should you sin against innocent blood in having David put to death for no reason?” <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Saul listened to Jonʹa·than, and Saul swore: “As surely as Jehovah is living, he will not be put to death.” <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Afterward Jonʹa·than called David and told him all these things. So Jonʹa·than brought David to Saul, and he continued to serve him as before.</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In time war broke out again, and David went out and fought against the Phi·lisʹtines and struck them down with a great slaughter, and they fled from before him.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And a bad spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul when he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand, while David was playing music on the harp. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Saul tried to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he eluded Saul, who drove the spear into the wall. David fled and escaped during that night. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Saul later sent messengers to David’s house to watch it and to kill him in the morning, but David’s wife Miʹchal told him: “If you do not escape<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> tonight, tomorrow you will be a dead man.” <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Immediately Miʹchal let David down through the window, so that he could run away and escape. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Miʹchal took the teraphim statue<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> and placed it on the bed, and she put a net of goat hair at the place of his head, and she covered it with a garment.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos84331"></span><span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Saul now sent messengers to take David, but she said: “He is sick.” <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Saul sent the messengers to see David and told them: “Bring him to me on his bed to have him put to death.” <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> When the messengers came in, there was the teraphim statue<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> on the bed and a net of goat hair where his head would have been. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Saul said to Miʹchal: “Why did you trick <span id="page425" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="425" data-before-text="425"></span>me like this and send my enemy away so that he could escape?” Miʹchal replied to Saul: “He said to me, ‘Send me away, or I will kill you!’”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Now David had run away and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Raʹmah. He told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went away, and they stayed in Naiʹoth. <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In time it was reported to Saul: “Look! David is in Naiʹoth in Raʹmah.” <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At once Saul sent messengers to seize David. When they saw the elderly ones of the prophets prophesying and Samuel standing and presiding over them, the spirit of God came to be upon Saul’s messengers, and they began behaving as prophets as well.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When they told it to Saul, he immediately sent other messengers, and they too began behaving as prophets. So Saul sent messengers again, a third group, and they too began behaving as prophets. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Finally he also went to Raʹmah. When he reached the great cistern that is in Seʹcu, he asked: “Where are Samuel and David?” They replied: “There in Naiʹoth in Raʹmah.” <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> While Saul was on his way from there to Naiʹoth in Raʹmah, the spirit of God came upon him as well, and he walked along behaving as a prophet until he came into Naiʹoth in Raʹmah. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> He also stripped off his garments, and he too behaved as a prophet before Samuel, and he lay there naked<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> all that day and all that night. That is why they say: “Is Saul also among the prophets?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p344" data-pid="344"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:5</span></a> Or “put his soul in his hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p345" data-pid="345"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:5</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p346" data-pid="346"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:11</span></a> Or “If you do not let your soul escape.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p347" data-pid="347"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:13</span></a> Or “the household god; the idol.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p348" data-pid="348"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:16</span></a> Or “the household god; the idol.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061113-split19.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 19:24</span></a> Or “lightly clad.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
