<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_2.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos5585"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Then Jehovah’s angel went up from Gilʹgal to Boʹchim and said: “I brought you up out of Egypt into the land about which I swore to your forefathers. Furthermore, I said, ‘I will never break my covenant with you. <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For your part, you must not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land and you should pull down their altars.’ But you have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this? <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> That is why I also said, ‘I will not drive them away from before you, and they will ensnare you, and their gods will lure you away.’”</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When Jehovah’s angel spoke these words to all the Israelites, <span id="page361" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="361" data-before-text="361"></span>the people began to weep loudly. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So they named that place Boʹchim,<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> and they sacrificed there to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos6307"></span><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> When Joshua sent the people away, each of the Israelites went to his inheritance to take possession of the land. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The people continued to serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua and who had seen all of Jehovah’s great deeds in behalf of Israel. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died at the age of 110. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So they buried him in the territory of his inheritance in Timʹnath-heʹres, in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, north of Mount Gaʹash. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> All that generation were gathered to their ancestors,<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> and another generation arose after them that did not know Jehovah or what he had done for Israel.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos6994"></span><span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So the Israelites did what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and served<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> the Baʹals. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Thus they abandoned Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt. And they followed other gods, the gods of the peoples who were all around them, and they bowed down to them and offended Jehovah. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> They abandoned Jehovah and served Baʹal and the Ashʹto·reth images. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> At this Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel, so he handed them over to plunderers who pillaged them. He sold them into the hand of the enemies around them, and they were no longer able to hold their own against their enemies. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Wherever they went, the hand of Jehovah was against them, bringing disaster on them, just as Jehovah had said and just as Jehovah had sworn to them, and they were in great distress. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So Jehovah would raise up judges who would save them from the hand of their plunderers.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But they refused to listen even to the judges and would prostitute themselves to other gods and bow down to them. They quickly turned aside from the way in which their forefathers had walked, those who had obeyed the commandments of Jehovah. They failed to do that. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Whenever Jehovah did raise up judges for them, Jehovah would be with the judge and save them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah was moved to pity<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> over their groaning caused by those who oppressed them and those who were treating them abusively.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But when the judge died, they would again act more corruptly than their fathers by following other gods, serving them and bowing down to them. They did not abandon their practices and their stubborn behavior. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Finally Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel, and he said: “Because this nation has violated my covenant that I commanded their forefathers and they have disobeyed me, <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> I for my part will not drive out from before them even one of the nations that Joshua left behind when he died. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> This is to test whether Israel will keep Jehovah’s way by walking in it as their fathers did.” <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So Jehovah allowed these nations to remain. He did not drive them out quickly, and he did not give them into Joshua’s hand.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061111-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 2:5</span></a> Meaning “Weepers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061111-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 2:10</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061111-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 2:11</span></a> Or “worshipped.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061111-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 2:18</span></a> Or “felt regret.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
