<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061119"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezra</a>  <a href="biblechapternav15.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav15_1.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page654" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="654" data-before-text="654"></span><strong>EZRA</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos44"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>In the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, in order that Jehovah’s word spoken by Jeremiah would be fulfilled, Jehovah stirred the spirit of King Cyrus of Persia to make a proclamation throughout his kingdom, which he also put in writing, saying:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “This is what King Cyrus of Persia says, ‘Jehovah the God of the heavens has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has commissioned me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of Jehovah the God of Israel—he is the true God—whose house was in Jerusalem.<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Anyone who is residing as a foreigner, wherever he may be, let him be helped by his neighbors<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> by their giving him silver and gold, goods and livestock, along with the voluntary offering for the house of the true God, which was in Jerusalem.’”</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos976"></span><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the heads of the paternal houses of Judah and of Benjamin and the priests and the Levites—everyone whose spirit the true God had stirred—prepared to go up and rebuild the house of Jehovah, which was in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> All those around them supported them by giving them<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> utensils of silver and of gold, goods, livestock, and valuable things, besides all the voluntary offerings.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> King Cyrus also brought out the utensils of the house of Jehovah that Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar had taken from Jerusalem and had put in the house of his god. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> King Cyrus of Persia brought them out under the supervision of Mithʹre·dath the treasurer, who made an inventory of them for Shesh·bazʹzar<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> the chieftain of Judah.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now this was the inventory: 30 basket-shaped vessels of gold, 1,000 basket-shaped vessels of silver, 29 replacement vessels, <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> 30 small gold bowls, 410 small silver bowls, 1,000 other utensils. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> All the utensils of gold and of silver were 5,400. Shesh·bazʹzar brought all of these up when the exiles were brought out of Babylon to Jerusalem.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p68" data-pid="68"><a href="1001061119.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 1:3</span></a> Or possibly, “who is in Jerusalem.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p69" data-pid="69"><a href="1001061119.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 1:4</span></a> Lit., “the men of his place.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p70" data-pid="70"><a href="1001061119.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 1:6</span></a> Lit., “strengthened their hands with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p71" data-pid="71"><a href="1001061119.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 1:8</span></a> Possibly Zerubbabel at <a href="1001061119-split2.xhtml#pos2279">Ezr 2:2;</a><a href="1001061119-split3.xhtml#pos8463"> 3:8</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
