<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_3.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="pos9904"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Now Peter and John were going up into the temple for the hour of prayer, the ninth hour,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> and a man who was lame from birth was being carried. Every day they would put him near the temple door that was called Beautiful, so he could <span id="page1464" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1464" data-before-text="1464"></span>ask for gifts of mercy from those entering the temple. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> When he caught sight of Peter and John about to go into the temple, he began asking for gifts of mercy. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But Peter, together with John, looked straight at him and said: “Look at us.” <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So he fixed his attention on them, expecting to get something from them. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, Peter said: “Silver and gold I do not possess, but what I do have is what I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ the Naz·a·reneʹ, walk!” <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> With that he took hold of him by the right hand and raised him up. Instantly his feet and his ankles were made firm; <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and leaping to his feet, he began walking and went with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And all the people saw him walking and praising God. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And they began to recognize him, that this was the man who used to sit waiting for gifts of mercy at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, and they were completely astonished and ecstatic about what had happened to him.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos11145"></span><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> While the man was still holding on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them at what was called Solʹo·mon’s Colonnade, completely surprised. <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When Peter saw this, he said to the people: “Men of Israel, why are you so amazed at this, and why are you staring at us as though by personal power or godly devotion we have made him walk? <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> The God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, the God of our forefathers, has glorified his Servant, Jesus, whom you handed over and disowned before Pilate, even though he had decided to release him. <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Yes, you disowned that holy and righteous one, and you asked for a man who was a murderer to be given to you, <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> whereas you killed the Chief Agent of life. But God raised him up from the dead, of which fact we are witnesses. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And through his name, and by our faith in his name, this man whom you see and know has been made strong. The faith that is through him has made this man completely healthy in front of all of you. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, just as your rulers also did. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But in this way God has fulfilled the things he announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ would suffer.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “Repent, therefore, and turn around so as to get your sins blotted out, so that seasons of refreshing may come from Jehovah himself<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus. <span id="pos12598"></span><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Heaven must hold this one within itself until the times of restoration of all things of which God spoke through the mouth of his holy prophets of old. <span id="pos12756"></span><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> In fact, Moses said: ‘Jehovah<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> your God will raise up for you from among your brothers a prophet like me. You must listen to whatever he tells you. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Indeed, anyone<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> who does not listen to that Prophet will be completely destroyed from among the people.’ <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And all the prophets from Samuel and those who followed him, as many as have spoken, have also plainly declared these days. <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your forefathers, saying to Abraham: ‘And by means of your offspring<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> all the families of the earth will be blessed.’ <span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> God, after raising up his Servant, sent him to <span id="page1465" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1465" data-before-text="1465"></span>you first to bless you by turning each one of you away from your wicked deeds.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061148-split3.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 3:1</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061148-split3.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 3:19</span></a> Lit., “from the face of Jehovah.” See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p241" data-pid="241"><a href="1001061148-split3.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 3:22</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p242" data-pid="242"><a href="1001061148-split3.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 3:23</span></a> Or “any soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p243" data-pid="243"><a href="1001061148-split3.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 3:25</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
