<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 42</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">42</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_42.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p511" data-pid="511" class="p511 sb"><span id="pos182749"></span><span id="chapter42"></span><span id="chapter42_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>42</strong> </span>Then he led me to the outer courtyard toward the north. And he brought me to the dining-room block that was next to the open area, north of the adjoining building. <span id="chapter42_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Its length at the north entrance was 100 cubits,<span id="footnotesource333"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote333">*</a> and it was 50 cubits wide. <span id="chapter42_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> It was located between the inner courtyard, which was 20 cubits wide, and the pavement of the outer courtyard. Its galleries faced each other and were three stories high. <span id="chapter42_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Before the dining rooms<span id="footnotesource334"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote334">*</a> was an inner walkway 10 cubits wide and 100 cubits long,<span id="footnotesource335"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote335">*</a> and their entrances were to the north. <span id="chapter42_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The upper dining rooms of the building were narrower than those in the lower and middle stories, because the galleries took up more of their space. <span id="chapter42_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For they were three stories high, but they had no pillars like the pillars of the courtyards. That is why more floor space was taken away from them than from the lower and middle stories.</p>
<p id="p512" data-pid="512" class="p512 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The outer stone wall near the dining rooms toward the outer courtyard that faced the other dining rooms was 50 cubits long. <span id="chapter42_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For the length of the dining rooms that were toward the outer courtyard was 50 cubits, but for those facing the sanctuary, it was 100 cubits. <span id="chapter42_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The dining rooms had an entryway on the east side leading up to them from the outer courtyard.</p>
<p id="p513" data-pid="513" class="p513 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> There were also dining rooms inside<span id="footnotesource336"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote336">*</a> the stone wall of <span id="page1195" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1195" data-before-text="1195"></span>the courtyard toward the east, near the open area and the building. <span id="chapter42_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> There was a walkway before them like that of the northern dining rooms. They were the same length and width, and they had the same exits and layouts. Their entrances <span id="chapter42_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> were like the entrances of the dining rooms that were toward the south. There was an entrance at the beginning of the walkway, before the adjacent stone wall toward the east, where one could enter.</p>
<p id="p514" data-pid="514" class="p514 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then he said to me: “The dining rooms of the north and the dining rooms of the south that are next to the open area are the holy dining rooms where the priests who are approaching Jehovah eat the most holy offerings. There they place the most holy offerings, the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, because the place is holy. <span id="chapter42_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When the priests enter, they should not go out of the holy place to the outer courtyard without first removing the garments in which they minister, for these are holy. They will clothe themselves with other garments in order to approach the areas permitted to the people.”</p>
<p id="p515" data-pid="515" class="p515 sb"><span id="pos185170"></span><span id="chapter42_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When he finished measuring the inner temple area,<span id="footnotesource337"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote337">*</a> he led me out by way of the gate that faces east, and he measured the entire area.</p>
<p id="p516" data-pid="516" class="p516 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> He measured the eastern side with the measuring reed.<span id="footnotesource338"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote338">*</a> According to the measuring reed, it was 500 reed lengths from one side to the other.</p>
<p id="p517" data-pid="517" class="p517 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He measured the northern side, and according to the measuring reed, it was 500 reed lengths.</p>
<p id="p518" data-pid="518" class="p518 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He measured the southern side, and according to the measuring reed, it was 500 reed lengths.</p>
<p id="p519" data-pid="519" class="p519 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He went around to the western side. He measured 500 reed lengths with the measuring reed.</p>
<p id="p520" data-pid="520" class="p520 sb"><span id="chapter42_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He measured it on the four sides. It had a wall all around it that was 500 reeds long and 500 reeds wide, to make a division between what is holy and what is for common use.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote333"><p id="p923" data-pid="923"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource333">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:2</span></a> This refers to long cubits. See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote334"><p id="p924" data-pid="924"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource334">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:4</span></a> Or “the chambers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote335"><p id="p925" data-pid="925"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource335">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:4</span></a> According to the Greek <em>Septuagint,</em> “100 cubits long.” The Hebrew text reads: “A way of one cubit.” See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote336"><p id="p926" data-pid="926"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource336">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:10</span></a> Lit., “in the width of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote337"><p id="p927" data-pid="927"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource337">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:15</span></a> Lit., “inner house.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote338"><p id="p928" data-pid="928"><a href="1001061130-split42.xhtml#footnotesource338">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 42:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
