<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_16.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos67481"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16</strong> </span>Here the Pharisees and Sadducees approached him, and to test him, they asked him to display to them a sign from heaven. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> In reply he said to them: “When evening falls, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is fire-red,’ <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and in the morning, ‘It will be wintry, rainy weather today, for the sky is fire-red but gloomy.’ You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but the signs of the times you cannot interpret. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> A wicked and adulterous<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> generation keeps seeking a sign, but no sign will be given it except the sign of Joʹnah.” With that he went away, leaving them behind.</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos68087"></span><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now the disciples crossed to the other side and forgot to take bread along. <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “Keep your eyes open and watch out for the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So they began to reason among themselves, saying: “We did not take any loaves along.” <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Knowing this, Jesus said: “Why are you discussing among yourselves that you have no loaves, you with little faith? <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Do you not yet see the point, or do you not remember the five loaves in the case of the 5,000 and how many baskets you took up? <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Or the seven loaves in the case of the 4,000 and how many large baskets<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> you took up? <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> How is it you do not discern that I did not speak to you about bread? But watch out for the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then they grasped that he said to watch out, not for the leaven of bread, but for the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="pos68985"></span><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When he had come into the region of Caes·a·reʹa Phi·lipʹpi, Jesus asked his disciples: “Who are men saying the Son of man is?” <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They said: “Some say John the Baptist, others E·liʹjah, and still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He said to <span id="page1328" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1328" data-before-text="1328"></span>them: “You, though, who do you say I am?” <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Simon Peter answered: “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.” <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In response Jesus said to him: “Happy you are, Simon son of Joʹnah, because flesh and blood<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> did not reveal it to you, but my Father in the heavens did. <span id="pos69541"></span><span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Also, I say to you: You are Peter, and on this rock I will build my congregation, and the gates of the Grave<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> will not overpower it. <span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> I will give you the keys of the Kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you may bind on earth will already be bound in the heavens, and whatever you may loosen on earth will already be loosened in the heavens.” <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then he sternly instructed the disciples not to tell anybody that he was the Christ.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="pos69991"></span><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> From that time forward, Jesus began explaining to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed, and on the third day be raised up. <span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> At this Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying: “Be kind to yourself, Lord; you will not have this happen to you at all.” <span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But turning his back, he said to Peter: “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, because you think, not God’s thoughts, but those of men.”</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos70516"></span><span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to his disciples: “If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> and keep following me. <span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For whoever wants to save his life<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> will lose it, but whoever loses his life<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> for my sake will find it. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Really, what good will it do a man if he gains the whole world but loses his life?<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> Or what will a man give in exchange for his life?<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> For the Son of man is to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will repay each one according to his behavior. <span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Truly I say to you that there are some of those standing here who will not taste death at all until first they see the Son of man coming in his Kingdom.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p341" data-pid="341"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:4</span></a> Or “unfaithful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p342" data-pid="342"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:10</span></a> Or “provision baskets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p343" data-pid="343"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:17</span></a> Or “because a human.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p344" data-pid="344"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:18</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p345" data-pid="345"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:24</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p346" data-pid="346"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:25</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p347" data-pid="347"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:25</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p348" data-pid="348"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:26</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p349" data-pid="349"><a href="1001061144-split16.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 16:26</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
