<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ruth 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061112"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ruth</a>  <a href="biblechapternav8.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav8_2.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos3519"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Now Na·oʹmi had a relative on her husband’s side who was very wealthy; his name was Boʹaz, and he was of the family of E·limʹe·lech.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Ruth the Moʹab·i·tess said to Na·oʹmi: “Let me go out, please, to the fields and glean among the ears of grain behind whoever looks on me with favor.” So Na·oʹmi said to her: “Go, my daughter.” <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> At that she went out and began to glean in the field behind the harvesters. By chance she came upon a plot of land belonging to Boʹaz, who was of the family of E·limʹe·lech. <span id="pos4033"></span><span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Just then Boʹaz arrived from Bethʹle·hem and said to the harvesters: “Jehovah be with you.” And they replied: “Jehovah bless you.”</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Boʹaz then asked the young man in charge of the harvesters: “To whom does this young woman belong?” <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The young man in charge of the harvesters answered: “The young woman is a Moʹab·i·tess who returned with Na·oʹmi from the fields of Moʹab. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> She asked, ‘Please, may I glean and gather among the cut-off ears<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> of grain left behind by the harvesters?’ And she has been on her feet since she came this morning until just now, when she sat in the shelter for a short rest.”</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then Boʹaz said to Ruth: “Listen, my daughter. Do not go away to glean in another field, and do not go anywhere else; stay close by my young women. <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Keep your eyes on the field that they harvest, and go with them. I have commanded the young men not to touch<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> you. When you are thirsty, go to the water jars and drink from what the young men have drawn.”</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At that she fell facedown and bowed down to the ground and said to him: “How have I found favor in your eyes, and why have you taken notice of me, when I am a foreigner?” <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Boʹaz answered her: “A full report was made to me of all you have done for your mother-in-law after the death of your husband and how you left your father and your mother and the land of your relatives to go to a people whom you had not known before. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> May Jehovah reward you for what you have done, and may there be a perfect wage<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> for you from Jehovah the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to seek refuge.” <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> To this she said: “Let me find favor in your eyes, my lord, because you have comforted me and spoken reassuringly to<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> your servant, although I am not even one of your servants.”</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Boʹaz said to her at mealtime: “Come here, eat some of the bread, and dip your piece in the vinegar.” So she sat down beside the harvesters. He then handed her some roasted grain, and she ate and was satisfied, and she had something left over. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> When she got up to glean, Boʹaz commanded his young men: “Let her glean even among the cut-off ears<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> of grain, and do not mistreat her. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> You should also be sure to pull out some ears of grain from the bundles for her and leave them behind for her to glean, and do not say anything to stop her.”</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sb"><span id="pos6367"></span><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So she continued to glean in the field until evening. When <span id="page394" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="394" data-before-text="394"></span>she beat out what she had gleaned, it came to about an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> of barley. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then she took it and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. Ruth also took out and gave to her the food that was left over after she had eaten her fill.</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Her mother-in-law then said to her: “Where did you glean today? Where did you work? May the one who took notice of you be blessed.” So she told her mother-in-law about whom she had worked with, saying: “The name of the man I worked with today is Boʹaz.” <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> At that Na·oʹmi said to her daughter-in-law: “May he be blessed by Jehovah, who has not failed in his loyal love toward the living and the dead.” Na·oʹmi continued: “The man is related to us. He is one of our repurchasers.”<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then Ruth the Moʹab·i·tess said: “He also told me, ‘Stay close by my young people until they have finished my entire harvest.’” <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Na·oʹmi said to her daughter-in-law Ruth: “It is better, my daughter, for you to go out with his young women than to be harassed in another field.”</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So she stayed close to the young women of Boʹaz and gleaned until the barley harvest and the wheat harvest came to an end. And she kept dwelling with her mother-in-law.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p40" data-pid="40"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:7</span></a> Or possibly, “the sheaves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:9</span></a> Or “disturb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:12</span></a> Or “a full reward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p id="p43" data-pid="43"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:13</span></a> Lit., “spoken to the heart of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p id="p44" data-pid="44"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:15</span></a> Or possibly, “the sheaves.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p45" data-pid="45"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:17</span></a> About 22 L (20 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p46" data-pid="46"><a href="1001061112-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 2:20</span></a> Or “one of our relatives with the right to repurchase (redeem).”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
