<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 49</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">49</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_49.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p446" data-pid="446" class="p446 sb"><span id="pos204642"></span><span id="chapter49"></span><span id="chapter49_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>49</strong> </span>And Jacob called his sons and said: “Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what will happen to you in the final part of the days. <span id="chapter49_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Assemble yourselves and listen, you sons of Jacob, yes, listen to Israel your father.</p>
<p id="p447" data-pid="447" class="p447 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Reuʹben, you are my firstborn, my vigor and the beginning of my procreative power, the excellence of dignity and the excellence of strength. <span id="chapter49_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> With recklessness like turbulent waters, you will not excel, because you have gone up to your father’s bed. At that time you defiled<span id="footnotesource340"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote340">*</a> my bed. He actually went on to it!</p>
<p id="p448" data-pid="448" class="p448 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “Simʹe·on and Leʹvi are brothers. Instruments of violence are their slaughter weapons. <span id="chapter49_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Into their company do not come, O my soul.<span id="footnotesource341"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote341">*</a> With their assembly do not join, O my honor,<span id="footnotesource342"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote342">*</a> because in their anger they killed men, and for their pleasure they hamstrung bulls. <span id="chapter49_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Cursed be their anger, because it is cruel, and their fury, because it is harsh. Let me disperse them in Jacob, and let me scatter them in Israel.</p>
<p id="p449" data-pid="449" class="p449 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “As for you, Judah, your brothers will praise you. Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies. The sons of your father will bow down before you. <span id="chapter49_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Judah is a lion cub. From the prey, my son, you will certainly go up. He has crouched down and stretched himself out like a lion, and like a lion, who dares rouse him? <span id="pos205950"></span><span id="chapter49_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The scepter will not depart from Judah, neither the commander’s staff from between his feet, until Shiʹloh<span id="footnotesource343"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote343">*</a> comes, and to him the obedience of the peoples will belong. <span id="chapter49_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Tying his donkey to a vine and his donkey’s colt to a choice vine, he will wash his clothing in wine and his garment in the blood of grapes. <span id="chapter49_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Dark red are his eyes from wine, and his teeth are white from milk.</p>
<p id="p450" data-pid="450" class="p450 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “Zebʹu·lun will reside by the seashore, by the shore where the ships lie anchored, and his remote border will be toward Siʹdon.</p>
<p id="p451" data-pid="451" class="p451 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “Isʹsa·char is a strong-boned donkey, lying down between the two saddlebags. <span id="chapter49_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And he will see that the resting-place is good and that the land is pleasant. He will bend his shoulder to bear the burden and will submit to forced labor.</p>
<p id="p452" data-pid="452" class="p452 sb"><span id="page110" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="110" data-before-text="110"></span><span id="chapter49_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Dan will judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter49_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Let Dan be a serpent by the roadside, a horned snake beside the path, that bites the heels of the horse so that its rider falls backward. <span id="chapter49_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> I will wait for salvation from you, O Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p453" data-pid="453" class="p453 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “As for Gad, a marauder band will raid him, but he will raid at their heels.</p>
<p id="p454" data-pid="454" class="p454 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “Ashʹer’s bread<span id="footnotesource344"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote344">*</a> will be abundant,<span id="footnotesource345"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote345">*</a> and he will provide food fit for a king.</p>
<p id="p455" data-pid="455" class="p455 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Naphʹta·li is a slender doe. He is speaking words of elegance.</p>
<p id="p456" data-pid="456" class="p456 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “Joseph is the offshoot of a fruitful tree, a fruitful tree by a spring, whose branches extend over the wall. <span id="chapter49_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and kept harboring animosity against him. <span id="chapter49_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And yet his bow remained in place, and his hands stayed strong and agile. This was from the hands of the powerful one of Jacob, from the shepherd, the stone of Israel. <span id="chapter49_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He<span id="footnotesource346"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote346">*</a> is from the God of your father, and he will help you, and he is with the Almighty, and he will bless you with the blessings of the heavens above, with the blessings of the deep below, with the blessings of the breasts and womb. <span id="chapter49_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The blessings of your father will be superior to the blessings of the eternal mountains, to the desirable things of the enduring hills. They will continue upon the head of Joseph, upon the crown of the head of the one singled out from his brothers.</p>
<p id="p457" data-pid="457" class="p457 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “Benjamin will keep on tearing like a wolf. In the morning he will eat the prey, and in the evening he will divide spoil.”</p>
<p id="p458" data-pid="458" class="p458 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> All of these are the 12 tribes of Israel, and this is what their father said to them when he was blessing them. He gave each of them an appropriate blessing.</p>
<p id="p459" data-pid="459" class="p459 sb"><span id="pos208444"></span><span id="chapter49_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> After that he gave these commands to them: “I am being gathered to my people.<span id="footnotesource347"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote347">*</a> Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Eʹphron the Hitʹtite, <span id="chapter49_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> the cave in the field of Mach·peʹlah in front of Mamʹre in the land of Caʹnaan, the field that Abraham purchased from Eʹphron the Hitʹtite as a property for a burial place. <span id="chapter49_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> There they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah. There they buried Isaac and his wife Re·bekʹah, and there I buried Leʹah. <span id="chapter49_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The field and the cave that is in it were purchased from the sons of Heth.”</p>
<p id="p460" data-pid="460" class="p460 sb"><span id="pos209003"></span><span id="chapter49_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Thus Jacob finished giving these instructions to his sons. Then he drew his feet up onto the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people.<span id="footnotesource348"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote348">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote340"><p id="p807" data-pid="807"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource340">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:4</span></a> Or “profaned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote341"><p id="p808" data-pid="808"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource341">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote342"><p id="p809" data-pid="809"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource342">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:6</span></a> Or possibly, “disposition.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote343"><p id="p810" data-pid="810"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource343">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:10</span></a> Meaning “He Whose It Is; He to Whom It Belongs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote344"><p id="p811" data-pid="811"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource344">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:20</span></a> Or “food.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote345"><p id="p812" data-pid="812"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource345">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:20</span></a> Lit., “fat.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote346"><p id="p813" data-pid="813"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource346">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:25</span></a> That is, Joseph.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote347"><p id="p814" data-pid="814"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource347">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:29</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote348"><p id="p815" data-pid="815"><a href="1001061105-split49.xhtml#footnotesource348">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 49:33</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
