<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_1.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page606" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="606" data-before-text="606"></span><strong>THE SECOND OF CHRONICLES</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos81"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Solʹo·mon the son of David grew ever stronger in his kingship, and Jehovah his God was with him and made him exceedingly great.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon sent for all Israel, the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds, the judges, and all the chieftains of all Israel, the heads of the paternal houses. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then Solʹo·mon and all the congregation went to the high place at Gibʹe·on, for that was where the tent of meeting of the true God was, which tent Moses the servant of Jehovah had made in the wilderness. <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, David had brought the Ark of the true God up from Kirʹi·ath-jeʹa·rim to the place that David had prepared for it; he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the copper altar that Bezʹal·el the son of Uʹri the son of Hur had made had been put before the tabernacle of Jehovah; and Solʹo·mon and the congregation would pray before it.<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon now made offerings there before Jehovah, and he offered up 1,000 burnt offerings on the copper altar of the tent of meeting.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> That night God appeared to Solʹo·mon and said to him: “Ask what you would like me to give you.” <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At this Solʹo·mon said to God: “You have shown great loyal love toward my father David, and you have made me king in his place. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Now, O Jehovah God, let your promise to David my father prove faithful, for you have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust particles of the earth. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Give me now wisdom and knowledge to lead this people,<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> for who can possibly judge this great people of yours?”</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then God said to Solʹo·mon: “Because this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches, and honor or for the death<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of those hating you, nor have you asked <span id="page607" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="607" data-before-text="607"></span>for a long life,<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> but you have asked for wisdom and knowledge to judge my people over whom I have made you king, <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> wisdom and knowledge will be given you; but I will also give you wealth and riches and honor such as no kings before you have had and none after you will have.”</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2078"></span><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So Solʹo·mon came from the high place at Gibʹe·on, from before the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem; and he reigned over Israel. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon kept accumulating chariots and horses;<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses,<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and he kept them stationed in the chariot cities and close by the king in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> The king made the silver and the gold in Jerusalem as plentiful as the stones, and cedarwood as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the She·pheʹlah. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The horses of Solʹo·mon had been imported from Egypt, and the company of the king’s merchants would obtain the horses in droves<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> for one price. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Each chariot imported from Egypt cost 600 silver pieces, and a horse cost 150; in turn, they would export them to all the kings of the Hitʹtites and the kings of Syria.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:5</span></a> Or “would inquire of Him there.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p231" data-pid="231"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:10</span></a> Lit., “to go out before this people and to come in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p232" data-pid="232"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:11</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p233" data-pid="233"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:11</span></a> Lit., “many days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:14</span></a> Or “horsemen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:14</span></a> Or “horsemen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061118.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 1:16</span></a> Or possibly, “from Egypt and from Kue; the king’s merchants would buy them from Kue,” perhaps referring to Cilicia.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
