<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061119"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezra</a>  <a href="biblechapternav15.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav15_4.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos10141"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>When the enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard that the returned exiles were building a temple to Jehovah the God of Israel, <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> they immediately approached Ze·rubʹba·bel and the heads of the paternal houses and said to them: “Let us build along with you; for like you, we worship<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> your God and we have been sacrificing to him since the days of King Eʹsar-hadʹdon of As·syrʹi·a, who brought us here.” <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> However, Ze·rubʹba·bel and Jeshʹu·a and the rest of the heads of the paternal houses of Israel said to them: “You have no share with us in building a house to our God, for we alone will build it to Jehovah the God of Israel, just as King Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.”</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then the people of the land were continually discouraging<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> the people of Judah and disheartening them from building. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They hired advisers against them to frustrate their plans all the days of King Cyrus of Persia until the reign of King Da·riʹus of Persia. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> At the beginning of the reign of A·has·u·eʹrus, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem. <span id="pos11227"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And in the days of King Ar·ta·xerxʹes of Persia, Bishʹlam, Mithʹre·dath, Tabʹe·el, and the rest of his colleagues wrote to Ar·ta·xerxʹes the king; they translated the letter into Ar·a·maʹic, writing it with Ar·a·maʹic characters.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a></p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> <span id="footnotesource20"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> Reʹhum the chief government official and Shimʹshai the <span id="page658" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="658" data-before-text="658"></span>scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to King Ar·ta·xerxʹes, as follows: <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> (It was from Reʹhum the chief government official and Shimʹshai the scribe and the rest of their colleagues, the judges and the lesser governors, the secretaries, the people of Eʹrech, the Babylonians, the inhabitants of Suʹsa, that is, the Eʹlam·ites, <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and the rest of the nations that the great and honorable Asʹe·nap·par took into exile and settled in the cities of Sa·marʹi·a, and the rest in the region Beyond the River,<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> and now <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> this is a copy of the letter that they sent him.)</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb">“To King Ar·ta·xerxʹes from your servants, the men of the region Beyond the River: And now <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> let it be known to the king that the Jews who came up here from you to us have arrived at Jerusalem. They are rebuilding the rebellious and wicked city, and they are finishing the walls and repairing the foundations. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now let it be known to the king that if this city should be rebuilt and its walls finished, they will not give tax, tribute, or toll, and it will result in a loss to the treasuries of the kings. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Since we eat the salt of the palace<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> and it is not proper for us to see the king’s interests harmed, we have therefore sent to make this known to the king, <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> so that there may be an investigation of the book of records of your ancestors. You will find in the book of records and learn that this city is a rebellious city, injurious to kings and provinces,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> and within it have been those stirring up sedition from ancient times. That is why this city was destroyed. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> We are making known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are finished, you will have no control<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> of the region Beyond the River.”</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos13255"></span><span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The king sent word to Reʹhum the chief government official and Shimʹshai the scribe and the rest of their colleagues who were dwelling in Sa·marʹi·a and the rest of the region Beyond the River:</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb">“Greetings! And now <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the official document that you sent us has been clearly read<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> before me. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> By my order an investigation was made, and it was found that from long ago the city has had uprisings against kings, and rebellions and revolts have taken place there. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> There were powerful kings over Jerusalem who ruled the whole region Beyond the River, and tax, tribute, and toll were paid to them. <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Now issue an order for these men to stop work, so that the city may not be rebuilt until I issue an order. <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Be careful not to neglect acting in this regard, so that the king’s interests are not harmed any further.”</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos14096"></span><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now after the copy of the official document of King Ar·ta·xerxʹes had been read before Reʹhum and Shimʹshai the scribe and their colleagues, they quickly went to Jerusalem to the Jews and used force to stop them. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> It was then that the work on the house of God, which was in Jerusalem, came to a halt; and it remained at a standstill until the second year of the reign of King Da·riʹus of Persia.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p id="p84" data-pid="84"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:2</span></a> Lit., “search for.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p id="p85" data-pid="85"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:4</span></a> Lit., “weakening the hands of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p id="p86" data-pid="86"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:7</span></a> Or possibly, “it was written in Aramaic and then translated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p id="p87" data-pid="87"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource20">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:8</span></a> Ezr 4:8 through 6:18 was originally written in Aramaic.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p id="p88" data-pid="88"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:10</span></a> Or “in Trans-Euphrates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p89" data-pid="89"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:14</span></a> Or “we receive our salary from the palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p90" data-pid="90"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:15</span></a> Or “jurisdictional districts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p91" data-pid="91"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:16</span></a> Lit., “share.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p92" data-pid="92"><a href="1001061119-split4.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 4:18</span></a> Or possibly, “has been translated and read.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
