<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_4.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sb"><span id="pos8266"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4</strong> </span>Therefore, since we have this ministry through the mercy that was shown us, we do not give up. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But we have renounced the shameful, underhanded things, not walking with cunning or adulterating the word of God; but by making the truth manifest, we recommend ourselves to every human conscience in the sight of God. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> If, in fact, the good news we declare is veiled, it is veiled among those who are perishing, <span id="pos8685"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> among whom the god of this system of things<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, so that the illumination<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> of the glorious good news about the Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine through. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For we are preaching, not about ourselves, but about Jesus Christ as Lord and ourselves as your slaves for Jesus’ sake. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For God is the one who said: “Let the light shine out of darkness,” and he has shone on our hearts to illuminate them with the glorious knowledge of God by the face of Christ.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sb"><span id="pos9206"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> However, we have this treasure in earthen vessels,<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> so that the power beyond what is normal may be God’s and not from us. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> We are hard-pressed in every way, but not cramped beyond movement; we are perplexed, but not absolutely with no way out;<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> we are persecuted, but not abandoned; we are knocked down, but not destroyed. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Always we endure in our body the death-dealing treatment that Jesus suffered, that the life of Jesus may also be made manifest in our body. <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For we who live are ever being brought face-to-face with death for Jesus’ sake, so that the life of Jesus may also be made manifest in our mortal flesh. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So death is at work in us, but life in you.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now because we have the same spirit of faith as that of which it is written: “I exercised faith, therefore I spoke”; we too exercise faith and therefore we speak, <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> knowing that the One who raised Jesus up will raise us up also with Jesus and will present us together with you. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For all these things are for your sake, so that the increase of the undeserved kindness should abound even more because many more are offering thanksgiving to the glory of God.</p>
<p id="p20" data-pid="20" class="p20 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Therefore, we do not give up, but even if the man we are outside is wasting away, certainly the man we are inside is <span id="page1548" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1548" data-before-text="1548"></span>being renewed from day to day. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For though the tribulation<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> is momentary and light, it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing greatness<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> and is everlasting; <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> while we keep our eyes, not on the things seen, but on the things unseen. For the things seen are temporary, but the things unseen are everlasting.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p90" data-pid="90"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:4</span></a> Or “this age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p91" data-pid="91"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:4</span></a> Or “light.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p92" data-pid="92"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:7</span></a> Or “in jars of clay.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p93" data-pid="93"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:8</span></a> Or possibly, “not left in despair.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p94" data-pid="94"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:17</span></a> Or “trial.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p95" data-pid="95"><a href="1001061151-split4.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 4:17</span></a> Lit., “weight.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
