<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_14.xhtml">1 - 29</a></p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos63828"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14</strong> </span>“You are sons of Jehovah your God. Do not cut yourselves or shave your foreheads bald<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> for a dead person. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God, and Jehovah has chosen you to become his people, his special property,<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos64123"></span><span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “You must not eat anything that is detestable. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> These are the animals that you may eat: the bull, the sheep, the goat, <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the antelope, the wild sheep, and the mountain sheep. <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> You may eat any animal that has a split hoof divided into two and that chews the cud. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> However, you must not eat the following animals that chew the cud or that have split hooves: the camel, the hare, and the rock badger, because they chew the cud but do not have split hooves. They are unclean for you. <span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Also the pig because it has a split hoof but does not chew the cud. It is unclean <span id="page295" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="295" data-before-text="295"></span>for you. You must not eat their flesh or touch their carcasses.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Of everything that is living in the waters, you may eat these: Anything with fins and scales, you may eat. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But you must not eat anything that has no fins and scales. It is unclean for you.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “You may eat any clean bird. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But you must not eat these: the eagle, the osprey, the black vulture, <span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> the red kite, the black kite, every kind of glede, <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> every kind of raven, <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> the ostrich, the owl, the gull, every kind of falcon, <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> the little owl, the long-eared owl, the swan, <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the pelican, the vulture, the cormorant, <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the stork, every kind of heron, the hoopoe, and the bat. <span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Every winged swarming creature<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> also is unclean for you. They should not be eaten. <span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Any clean flying creature you may eat.</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “You must not eat any animal that was found dead. You may give it to the foreign resident who is inside your cities,<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> and he may eat it, or it may be sold to a foreigner. For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God.</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb">“You must not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos65867"></span><span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “You must without fail give a tenth<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> of everything your seed produces in the field year by year. <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> You will eat the tenth part of your grain, your new wine, your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and your flock before Jehovah your God in the place that he chooses to have his name reside, so that you may learn to fear Jehovah your God always.</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “But if the journey should be too long for you and you are not able to carry it to the place that Jehovah your God chooses as the place for his name because it is far away from you (because Jehovah your God will bless you), <span id="chapter14_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> you may then convert it into money, and with your money in hand, travel to the place that Jehovah your God will choose. <span id="chapter14_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> You may then spend the money on whatever you desire<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a>—cattle, sheep, goats, wine and other alcoholic beverages, and anything you please;<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> and you will eat there before Jehovah your God and rejoice, you and your household. <span id="chapter14_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And do not neglect the Levite who is inside your cities, for he has not been given a share or an inheritance with you.</p>
<p id="p102" data-pid="102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “At the end of every three years, you should bring out the entire tenth part of your produce for that year and deposit it inside your cities. <span id="chapter14_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then the Levite, who has not been given a share or an inheritance with you, the foreign resident, the fatherless child,<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> and the widow who are in your cities will come and eat their fill, so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all that you do.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p485" data-pid="485"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:1</span></a> Lit., “put (make) baldness between your eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p486" data-pid="486"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:2</span></a> Or “treasured possession.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p487" data-pid="487"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:19</span></a> Or “insect.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p488" data-pid="488"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:21</span></a> Lit., “gates.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p489" data-pid="489"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:22</span></a> Or “a tithe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p490" data-pid="490"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:26</span></a> Or “your soul desires.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p491" data-pid="491"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:26</span></a> Or “anything your soul may ask of you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p492" data-pid="492"><a href="1001061109-split14.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 14:29</span></a> Or “the orphan.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
