<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_7.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos30216"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>E·liʹsha now said, “Listen to the word of Jehovah. This is what Jehovah says: ‘Tomorrow about this time at the gate<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> of Sa·marʹi·a, a seah measure<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> of fine flour will be worth a shekel,<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> and two seah measures of barley will be worth a shekel.’” <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At that the adjutant whom the king relied on said to the man of the true God: “Even if Jehovah <span id="page534" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="534" data-before-text="534"></span>should open floodgates in the heavens, could this<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> possibly take place?” To that he said: “You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat from it.”</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos30726"></span><span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> There were four lepers at the entrance of the city gate, and they said to one another: “Why are we sitting here until we die? <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If we say, ‘Let us go into the city,’ while the famine is in the city, we would die there. And if we sit here, we will die anyway. So now let us go over to the camp of the Syrians. If they spare our lives, we will live, but if they put us to death, then we will die.” <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> They then got up in the evening darkness and entered the camp of the Syrians. When they reached the outskirts of the Syrian camp, there was nobody there.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For Jehovah had caused the Syrian camp to hear the sound of war chariots and horses, the sound of a huge army. So they said to one another: “Look! The king of Israel has hired the kings of the Hitʹtites and the kings of Egypt to come against us!” <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They immediately got up and fled in the evening darkness, leaving their tents, horses, donkeys, and the whole camp just as it was, and they fled for their lives.<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a></p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When these lepers reached the outskirts of the camp, they entered into one of the tents and began to eat and drink. They carried away from there silver, gold, and garments and went and hid them. Then they returned and entered another tent and carried things away from there and went and hid them.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Finally they said to one another: “What we are doing is not right. This day is a day of good news! If we hesitate and wait until dawn, we will deserve to be punished. Let us now go and report this at the king’s house.” <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So they went and called out to the gatekeepers of the city and reported to them: “We went into the camp of the Syrians, but nobody was there—we did not hear anyone at all. There were only the horses and donkeys tied and the tents left just as they were.” <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> At once the gatekeepers called out, and it was reported inside the king’s house.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Immediately the king got up by night and said to his servants: “Please let me tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry, so they left the camp to hide in the field, saying, ‘They will come out of the city, and we will catch them alive and enter into the city.’” <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then one of his servants said: “Please, let some men take five of the remaining horses that are in the city. Look! They will end up the same as all the crowd of Israel that remain here. Look! They will end up the same as all the crowd of Israel that perished. Let us then send them out and see.” <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So they took two chariots with horses, and the king sent them out to the camp of the Syrians, saying: “Go and see.” <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> They followed them as far as the Jordan, and the entire way was covered with garments and utensils that the Syrians had thrown away as they fled in panic. The messengers returned and reported it to the king.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos33518"></span><span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The people then went out and plundered the camp of the Syrians, so that a seah measure of fine flour came to be worth a shekel, and two seah measures of barley came to be worth a shekel, according to the word of Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The king had appointed the adjutant whom he relied on to be in charge of the <span id="page535" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="535" data-before-text="535"></span>gate, but the people trampled him to death at the gate, just as the man of the true God had told the king when he came down to him. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> It happened just as the man of the true God had said to the king: “Two seah measures of barley will be worth a shekel, and a seah measure of fine flour will be worth a shekel tomorrow at this time at the gate of Sa·marʹi·a.” <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But the adjutant had said to the man of the true God: “Even if Jehovah should open floodgates in the heavens, could such a thing<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> take place?” To this E·liʹsha had said: “You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat from it.” <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> That is exactly what happened to him, because the people trampled him to death at the gate.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:1</span></a> Or “markets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p265" data-pid="265"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:1</span></a> A seah equaled 7.33 L (6.66 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p266" data-pid="266"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:1</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p267" data-pid="267"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:2</span></a> Lit., “this word.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p268" data-pid="268"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:7</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p269" data-pid="269"><a href="1001061116-split7.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 7:19</span></a> Lit., “such a word as this.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
