<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_19.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="pos63258"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>Then King Je·hoshʹa·phat of Judah returned safely<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> to his own house<span id="footnotesource131"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote131">*</a> in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Jeʹhu the son of Ha·naʹni the visionary went out to meet him and said to King Je·hoshʹa·phat: “Is it the wicked you should be helping, and is it those who hate Jehovah you should love? Because of this the indignation of Jehovah is against you. <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Nevertheless, there are good things that have been found in you, because you cleared out the sacred poles<span id="footnotesource132"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote132">*</a> from the land and you have prepared your heart<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> to search for the true God.”</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos63789"></span><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Je·hoshʹa·phat continued living in Jerusalem, and he went out again among the people from Beʹer-sheʹba to the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, to bring them back to Jehovah the God of their forefathers. <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> He also appointed judges throughout the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city. <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he said to the judges: “Pay attention to what you are doing, for you do not judge for man but for Jehovah, and he is with you when you pass judgment. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now let the fear of Jehovah be upon you. Be careful about what you do, for with Jehovah our God there is no injustice, no partiality, no bribe-taking.”</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In Jerusalem also, Je·hoshʹa·phat appointed some of the Levites and the priests and some of the heads of the paternal houses of Israel to serve as judges for Jehovah and to settle legal cases for the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And he commanded them: “This is what you should do in the fear of Jehovah, with faithfulness and a complete<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> heart: <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Whenever your brothers living in their cities bring a legal case that involves the shedding of blood or a question about a law, a commandment, regulations, or judgments, you should warn them so that they may not become guilty before Jehovah; otherwise his indignation will come against you and your brothers. This is what you should do, so that you may not incur guilt. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Here is Am·a·riʹah the chief priest who is over you for every matter of Jehovah. Zeb·a·diʹah the son of Ishʹma·el is the leader of the house of Judah for every matter pertaining to the king. And the Levites will serve as officers for you. Be strong and act, and let Jehovah be with those who do what is good.”<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p id="p359" data-pid="359"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:1</span></a> Or “in peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote131"><p id="p360" data-pid="360"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource131">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote132"><p id="p361" data-pid="361"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource132">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p362" data-pid="362"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:3</span></a> Or “your heart is resolved.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:9</span></a> Or “completely devoted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p364" data-pid="364"><a href="1001061118-split19.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 19:11</span></a> Or “with what is good.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
