<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_10.xhtml">1 - 42</a></p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="pos35604"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>So he summoned his 12 disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, in order to expel these and to cure every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity.</p>
<p id="p80" data-pid="80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The names of the 12 apostles are these: First, Simon, the one called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebʹe·dee and John his brother; <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Philip and Bar·tholʹo·mew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Al·phaeʹus; and Thad·daeʹus; <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Simon the Ca·na·naeʹan;<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> and Judas Is·carʹi·ot, who later betrayed him.</p>
<p id="p81" data-pid="81" class="p81 sb"><span id="pos36126"></span><span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> These 12 Jesus sent out, giving them these instructions: “Do not go off into the road of the nations, and do not enter any Sa·marʹi·tan city; <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> but instead, go continually to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> As you go, preach, saying: ‘The Kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.’ <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Cure the sick, raise up the dead, make lepers clean, expel demons. You received free, give free. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Do not acquire gold or silver or copper for your money belts, <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> or a food pouch for the trip, or two garments,<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> or sandals, or a staff, for the worker deserves his food.</p>
<p id="p82" data-pid="82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “Into whatever city or village you enter, search out who in it is deserving, and stay there until you leave. <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When you enter the house, greet the household. <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> If the house is deserving, let the peace you wish it come upon it; but if it is not deserving, let the peace from you return upon you. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Wherever anyone does not receive you or listen to your words, on going out of that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet. <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, it will be more endurable for the land of Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah on Judgment Day than for that city.</p>
<p id="p83" data-pid="83" class="p83 sb"><span id="pos37290"></span><span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “Look! I am sending you out as sheep among wolves; <span id="page1318" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1318" data-before-text="1318"></span>so prove yourselves cautious as serpents and yet innocent as doves. <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Be on your guard against men, for they will hand you over to local courts and they will scourge you in their synagogues. <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and the nations. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> However, when they hand you over, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak, for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour; <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> for the ones speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your Father that speaks by you. <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Further, brother will hand brother over to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and will have them put to death. <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And you will be hated by all people on account of my name, but the one who has endured<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> to the end will be saved. <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When they persecute you in one city, flee to another; for truly I say to you, you will by no means complete the circuit of the cities of Israel until the Son of man arrives.</p>
<p id="p84" data-pid="84" class="p84 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “A student is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. <span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It is enough for the student to become as his teacher, and the slave as his master. If people have called the master of the house Be·elʹze·bub,<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> how much more those of his household? <span id="pos38655"></span><span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So do not fear them, for there is nothing covered over that will not become uncovered, and nothing secret that will not become known. <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> What I tell you in the darkness, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, preach from the housetops. <span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And do not become fearful of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul;<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in Ge·henʹna.<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Two sparrows sell for a coin of small value,<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> do they not? Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father’s knowledge. <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. <span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So have no fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.</p>
<p id="p85" data-pid="85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos39333"></span><span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “Everyone, then, who acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge him before my Father who is in the heavens. <span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But whoever disowns me before men, I will also disown him before my Father who is in the heavens. <span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Do not think I came to bring peace to the earth; I came to bring, not peace, but a sword. <span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> For I came to cause division, with a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Indeed, a man’s enemies will be those of his own household. <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Whoever has greater affection for father or mother than for me is not worthy of me; and whoever has greater affection for son or daughter than for me is not worthy of me. <span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And whoever does not accept his torture stake<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> and follow after me is not worthy of me. <span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Whoever finds his soul<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> will lose it, and whoever loses his soul<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> for my sake will find it.</p>
<p id="p86" data-pid="86" class="p86 sb"><span id="pos40254"></span><span id="chapter10_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> “Whoever receives you receives me also, and whoever receives me receives also the One who sent me. <span id="chapter10_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Whoever receives a prophet because he is a prophet will get a prophet’s reward, and whoever receives a righteous man because he is a <span id="page1319" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1319" data-before-text="1319"></span>righteous man will get a righteous man’s reward. <span id="chapter10_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, I tell you truly, he will by no means lose his reward.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:4</span></a> Or “the zealous one.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:10</span></a> Or “an extra garment.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:22</span></a> Or “who endures.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p303" data-pid="303"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:25</span></a> A designation applied to Satan, the prince, or ruler, of the demons.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p304" data-pid="304"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:28</span></a> Or “life,” that is, life prospects.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p305" data-pid="305"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:28</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos38046">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:29</span></a> Lit., “for an assarion.” See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:38</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:39</span></a> Or “life.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061144-split10.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 10:39</span></a> Or “life.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
