<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 52</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">52</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_52.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p1565" data-pid="1565" class="p1565 sb"><span id="pos234019"></span><span id="chapter52"></span><span id="chapter52_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>52</strong> </span>Zed·e·kiʹah was 21 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 11 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ha·muʹtal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libʹnah. <span id="chapter52_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Je·hoiʹa·kim had done. <span id="chapter52_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> It was because of Jehovah’s anger that these things took place in Jerusalem and in Judah, until he cast them out of his sight. And Zed·e·kiʹah rebelled against the king of Babylon. <span id="pos234475"></span><span id="chapter52_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In the ninth year of Zed·e·kiʹah’s reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource466"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote466">*</a> of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem. They camped against it and built a siege wall all around it. <span id="chapter52_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the city was under siege until the 11th year of King Zed·e·kiʹah.</p>
<p id="p1566" data-pid="1566" class="p1566 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> In the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, the famine was severe in the city, and there was no food for the people of the land. <span id="chapter52_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Finally the city wall was broken through, and all the soldiers fled from the city by night through the gate between the double wall near the king’s garden, while the Chal·deʹans were surrounding the city; and they continued by the way of the Arʹa·bah. <span id="chapter52_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But the Chal·deʹan army pursued the king, and they overtook Zed·e·kiʹah in the desert plains of Jerʹi·cho, and all his troops were scattered from his side. <span id="chapter52_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Ribʹlah in the land of Haʹmath, and he passed sentence on him. <span id="chapter52_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the king of Babylon slaughtered Zed·e·kiʹah’s sons before his eyes, and he also slaughtered all the princes of Judah there at Ribʹlah. <span id="chapter52_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then the king of Babylon blinded Zed·e·kiʹah’s eyes, bound him with copper fetters, brought him to Babylon, and kept him imprisoned until the day of his death.</p>
<p id="p1567" data-pid="1567" class="p1567 sb"><span id="pos235798"></span><span id="chapter52_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, that is, in the 19th year of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource467"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote467">*</a> the king of Babylon, Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard, who was an attendant of the king of Babylon, came into Jerusalem. <span id="chapter52_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He burned down the house of Jehovah, the king’s house,<span id="footnotesource468"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote468">*</a> and all the houses of Jerusalem; he also burned down every large house. <span id="chapter52_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the walls surrounding Jerusalem were pulled down by the entire Chal·deʹan army that was with the chief of the guard.</p>
<p id="p1568" data-pid="1568" class="p1568 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard took into exile some of the lowly people and the rest of the people who were left in the city. He also took the deserters who had defected to the king of Babylon as well as the rest of the master craftsmen. <span id="chapter52_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard left some of the poorest people of the land to serve as <span id="page1120" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1120" data-before-text="1120"></span>vinedressers and as compulsory laborers.</p>
<p id="p1569" data-pid="1569" class="p1569 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And the Chal·deʹans broke into pieces the copper pillars of the house of Jehovah and the carriages and the copper Sea that were in the house of Jehovah, and they carried all the copper away to Babylon. <span id="chapter52_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> They also took the cans, the shovels, the extinguishers, the bowls, the cups, and all the copper utensils used in the temple service. <span id="chapter52_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The chief of the guard took the basins, the fire holders, the bowls, the cans, the lampstands, the cups, and the bowls that were of genuine gold and silver. <span id="chapter52_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> As for the two pillars, the Sea, the 12 copper bulls under the Sea, and the carriages that King Solʹo·mon had made for the house of Jehovah, the copper of all these articles was beyond weighing.</p>
<p id="p1570" data-pid="1570" class="p1570 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> As for the pillars, each pillar was 18 cubits<span id="footnotesource469"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote469">*</a> high, a measuring cord of 12 cubits could encircle it; its thickness was four fingerbreadths,<span id="footnotesource470"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote470">*</a> and it was hollow. <span id="chapter52_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the capital on it was of copper; and the height of the one capital was five cubits; and the network and pomegranates all around on the capital were all made of copper. The second pillar was just like it, also the pomegranates. <span id="chapter52_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> There were 96 pomegranates on the sides; in all, there were 100 pomegranates around the network.</p>
<p id="p1571" data-pid="1571" class="p1571 sb"><span id="pos237945"></span><span id="chapter52_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> The chief of the guard also took Se·raiʹah the chief priest, Zeph·a·niʹah the second priest, and the three doorkeepers. <span id="chapter52_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And he took from the city one court official who was the commissioner over the soldiers, seven close associates of the king who were found in the city, as well as the secretary of the chief of the army, the one mustering the people of the land, and 60 men of the common people of the land who were yet found in the city. <span id="chapter52_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Ribʹlah. <span id="chapter52_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Ribʹlah in the land of Haʹmath. Thus Judah went into exile from its land.</p>
<p id="p1572" data-pid="1572" class="p1572 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> These are the people whom Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar<span id="footnotesource471"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote471">*</a> took into exile: in the seventh year, 3,023 Jews.</p>
<p id="p1573" data-pid="1573" class="p1573 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In the 18th year of Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar,<span id="footnotesource472"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote472">*</a> 832 people<span id="footnotesource473"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote473">*</a> were taken from Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p1574" data-pid="1574" class="p1574 sb"><span id="chapter52_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> In the 23rd year of Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar,<span id="footnotesource474"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote474">*</a> Neb·uʹzar·adʹan the chief of the guard took Jews into exile, 745 people.<span id="footnotesource475"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote475">*</a></p>
<p id="p1575" data-pid="1575" class="p1575 sb">In all, 4,600 people<span id="footnotesource476"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote476">*</a> were taken into exile.</p>
<p id="p1576" data-pid="1576" class="p1576 sb"><span id="pos239014"></span><span id="chapter52_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Then in the 37th year of the exile of King Je·hoiʹa·chin of Judah, in the 12th month, on the 25th day of the month, King Eʹvil-merʹo·dach of Babylon, in the year he became king, released<span id="footnotesource477"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote477">*</a> King Je·hoiʹa·chin of Judah and brought him out of prison. <span id="chapter52_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> He spoke kindly with him and put his throne higher than the thrones of the other kings who were with him in Babylon. <span id="chapter52_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> So Je·hoiʹa·chin took off his prison garments, and he regularly ate before him all the days of his life. <span id="chapter52_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> A regular allowance of food was given him from the king of Babylon, day after day, until the day of his death, all the days of his life.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote466"><p id="p2043" data-pid="2043"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource466">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:4</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote467"><p id="p2044" data-pid="2044"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource467">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:12</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote468"><p id="p2045" data-pid="2045"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource468">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:13</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote469"><p id="p2046" data-pid="2046"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource469">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:21</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote470"><p id="p2047" data-pid="2047"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource470">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:21</span></a> A fingerbreadth equaled 1.85 cm (0.73 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote471"><p id="p2048" data-pid="2048"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource471">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:28</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote472"><p id="p2049" data-pid="2049"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource472">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:29</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote473"><p id="p2050" data-pid="2050"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource473">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:29</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote474"><p id="p2051" data-pid="2051"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource474">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:30</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote475"><p id="p2052" data-pid="2052"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource475">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:30</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote476"><p id="p2053" data-pid="2053"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource476">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:30</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote477"><p id="p2054" data-pid="2054"><a href="1001061128-split52.xhtml#footnotesource477">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 52:31</span></a> Lit., “raised up the head of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
