<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061113"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_15.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p104" data-pid="104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos58634"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>Then Samuel said to Saul: “Jehovah sent me to anoint you as king over his people Israel; now listen to what Jehovah has to say. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> This is what Jehovah of armies says: ‘I will call to account the A·malʹek·ites for what they did to Israel when they opposed them along their way coming up from Egypt. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now go, and strike down the A·malʹek·ites, and devote them to destruction along with all that they have. You must not spare<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> them; you are to put them to death, man as well as woman, child as well as infant, bull as well as sheep, camel as well as donkey.’” <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Saul summoned the people and counted them in Te·laʹim: There were 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah.</p>
<p id="p105" data-pid="105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Saul advanced as far as the city of Amʹa·lek and set an ambush by the valley.<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Saul then said to the Kenʹites: “Go, depart from among the A·malʹek·ites, so that I do not sweep you away with them. For you showed loyal love to all the people <span id="page417" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="417" data-before-text="417"></span>of Israel at the time they came up out of Egypt.” So the Kenʹites departed from the midst of Amʹa·lek. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> After that Saul struck down the A·malʹek·ites from Havʹi·lah as far as Shur, which is next to Egypt. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He caught Aʹgag the king of Amʹa·lek alive, but all the other people he devoted to destruction with the sword. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> However, Saul and the people spared<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> Aʹgag and the best of the flock, the herd, the fattened animals, the rams, and all that was good. They did not want to devote them to destruction. But all the goods that were worthless and unwanted, these they devoted to destruction.</p>
<p id="p106" data-pid="106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos60184"></span><span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to Samuel: <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “I regret<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> that I have made Saul king, for he has turned away from following me and he has not carried out my words.” Samuel became very upset, and he kept crying out to Jehovah all night long. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul, Samuel was told: “Saul went to Carʹmel, and there he erected a monument for himself. Then he turned around and went down to Gilʹgal.” <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When Samuel finally came to him, Saul said to him: “May Jehovah bless you. I have carried out the word of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But Samuel said: “Then what is this sound of the flock in my ears and the sound of the cattle that I hear?” <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> To this Saul said: “They were brought from the A·malʹek·ites, because the people spared<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> the best of the flock and the herd for sacrificing them to Jehovah your God; but what was left we devoted to destruction.” <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At this Samuel said to Saul: “Stop! Let me tell you what Jehovah said to me last night.” So he said to him: “Speak!”</p>
<p id="p107" data-pid="107" class="p107 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Samuel continued: “Were you not insignificant in your own eyes when you were made head of the tribes of Israel and when Jehovah anointed you as king over Israel? <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Jehovah later sent you on a mission and said, ‘Go, and devote the sinful A·malʹek·ites to destruction. Fight against them until you have exterminated them.’ <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So why did you not obey the voice of Jehovah? Instead, you rushed greedily toward the spoil and did what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah!”</p>
<p id="p108" data-pid="108" class="p108 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> However, Saul said to Samuel: “But I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah! I went on the mission to which Jehovah sent me, and I brought back Aʹgag the king of Amʹa·lek, and I devoted the A·malʹek·ites to destruction. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But the people took sheep and cattle from the spoil, the best of what was devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to Jehovah your God at Gilʹgal.”</p>
<p id="p109" data-pid="109" class="p109 sb"><span id="pos62066"></span><span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Samuel then said: “Does Jehovah take as much pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of Jehovah? Look! To obey is better than a sacrifice, and to pay attention than the fat of rams; <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> for rebelliousness is the same as the sin of divination, and pushing ahead presumptuously the same as using magical power and idolatry.<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> Because you have rejected the word of Jehovah, he has rejected you from being king.”</p>
<p id="p110" data-pid="110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos62515"></span><span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then Saul said to Samuel: “I have sinned, for I have overstepped the order of Jehovah and your words, because I feared the people and listened to what they said. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And now, <span id="page418" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="418" data-before-text="418"></span>please, pardon my sin, and return with me so that I may bow down to Jehovah.” <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> But Samuel said to Saul: “I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah has rejected you from continuing as king over Israel.” <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> As Samuel was turning to go, Saul grabbed hold of the hem of his sleeveless coat, but it ripped away. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> At this Samuel said to him: “Jehovah has ripped away the royal rule of Israel from you today, and he will give it to one of your fellow men who is better than you. <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Moreover, the Excellency of Israel will not prove false or change his mind,<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> for He is not a mere man that he should change his mind.”<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a></p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos63382"></span><span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> At this he said: “I have sinned. But honor me, please, in front of the elders of my people and in front of Israel. Return with me, and I will bow down to Jehovah your God.” <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So Samuel returned behind Saul, and Saul bowed down to Jehovah. <span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> And Samuel said: “Bring Aʹgag the king of Amʹa·lek near to me.” Then Aʹgag went to him reluctantly,<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> for Aʹgag had been saying to himself: ‘Surely the threat<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> of death is past.’ <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> However, Samuel said: “Just as your sword has bereaved women of children, so your mother will be most bereaved among women.” With that Samuel hacked Aʹgag to pieces before Jehovah at Gilʹgal.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Samuel now went to Raʹmah, and Saul went up to his own house at Gibʹe·ah of Saul. <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, for Samuel went into mourning for Saul. And Jehovah regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:3</span></a> Or “show compassion to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:5</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:9</span></a> Or “showed compassion to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:11</span></a> Or “am grieved.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:15</span></a> Or “showed compassion to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:23</span></a> Lit., “teraphim statues,” that is, household gods; idols.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:29</span></a> Or “feel regret.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:29</span></a> Or “feel regret.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:32</span></a> Or possibly, “confidently.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061113-split15.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 15:32</span></a> Lit., “bitterness.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
