<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061128"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_20.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p709" data-pid="709" class="p709 sb"><span id="pos81648"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>Now Pashʹhur the son of Imʹmer, the priest, who was also the leading commissioner in the house of Jehovah, was listening when Jeremiah prophesied these things. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then Pashʹhur struck Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that were at the Upper Gate of Benjamin, which was in the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But on the following day when Pashʹhur released Jeremiah from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him:</p>
<p id="p710" data-pid="710" class="p710 sb">“Jehovah has named you, not Pashʹhur, but Terror All Around. <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For this is what Jehovah says, ‘I will make you an object of terror to yourself and to all your friends, and they will fall by the sword of their enemies while your eyes are looking on; and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will take them into exile in Babylon and put them to death by the sword. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And I will give all the wealth of this city, all its resources, all its precious things, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hand of their enemies. And they will plunder them and seize them and take them to Babylon. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And as for you, Pashʹhur, and all who live in your house, you will go into captivity. You will go off to Babylon and die there, and you will be buried there with all your friends, because you have prophesied lies to them.’”</p>
<p id="p711" data-pid="711" class="p711 sl"><span id="pos82927"></span><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> You have fooled me, O Jehovah, and I was fooled.</p>
<p id="p712" data-pid="712" class="p712 sz">You used your strength against me, and you prevailed.</p>
<p id="p713" data-pid="713" class="p713 sz">I have become a laughingstock all day long;</p><p data-pid="713" class="p713 sz">Everyone ridicules me.</p>
<p id="p714" data-pid="714" class="p714 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For whenever I speak, I must cry out and proclaim,</p><p data-pid="714" class="p714 sz">“Violence and destruction!”</p>
<p id="p715" data-pid="715" class="p715 sz">For me the word of Jehovah has been the cause of insults and jeering all day long.</p>
<p id="p716" data-pid="716" class="p716 sl"><span id="pos83284"></span><span id="chapter20_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So I said: “I am not going to make mention of him,</p><p data-pid="716" class="p716 sz">And I will speak no more in his name.”</p>
<p id="p717" data-pid="717" class="p717 sz">But in my heart it became like a burning fire shut up in my bones,</p><p data-pid="717" class="p717 sz">And I was tired of holding it in;</p><p data-pid="717" class="p717 sz">I could no longer endure it.</p>
<p id="p718" data-pid="718" class="p718 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For I heard many evil rumors;</p><p data-pid="718" class="p718 sz">Terror surrounded me.</p>
<p id="p719" data-pid="719" class="p719 sz">“Denounce him; let us denounce him!”</p>
<p id="p720" data-pid="720" class="p720 sz">Every man wishing me peace was watching for my downfall:</p>
<p id="p721" data-pid="721" class="p721 sz">“Perhaps he will make a foolish mistake,</p><p data-pid="721" class="p721 sz">And we can prevail and take our revenge against him.”</p>
<p id="p722" data-pid="722" class="p722 sl"><span id="pos83780"></span><span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But Jehovah was with me like a fearsome warrior.</p>
<p id="p723" data-pid="723" class="p723 sz">That is why those persecuting me will stumble and will not prevail.</p>
<p id="p724" data-pid="724" class="p724 sz"><span id="page1065" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1065" data-before-text="1065"></span>They will be put to great shame, for they will not succeed.</p>
<p id="p725" data-pid="725" class="p725 sz">Their everlasting humiliation will not be forgotten.</p>
<p id="p726" data-pid="726" class="p726 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But you, O Jehovah of armies, are examining the righteous one;</p><p data-pid="726" class="p726 sz">You see the innermost thoughts<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> and the heart.</p>
<p id="p727" data-pid="727" class="p727 sz">Let me see your vengeance on them,</p><p data-pid="727" class="p727 sz">For to you I have committed my legal case.</p>
<p id="p728" data-pid="728" class="p728 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Sing to Jehovah! Praise Jehovah!</p>
<p id="p729" data-pid="729" class="p729 sz">For he has rescued the poor one<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> from the hand of evildoers.</p>
<p id="p730" data-pid="730" class="p730 sl"><span id="pos84341"></span><span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Cursed be the day I was born!</p>
<p id="p731" data-pid="731" class="p731 sz">May the day my mother gave birth to me not be blessed!</p>
<p id="p732" data-pid="732" class="p732 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Cursed be the man who brought good news to my father, saying:</p>
<p id="p733" data-pid="733" class="p733 sz">“A son has been born to you, a boy!”</p>
<p id="p734" data-pid="734" class="p734 sz">Making him rejoice greatly.</p>
<p id="p735" data-pid="735" class="p735 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> May that man become like cities that Jehovah overthrew without regret.</p>
<p id="p736" data-pid="736" class="p736 sz">May he hear an outcry in the morning and the sound of alarm at midday.</p>
<p id="p737" data-pid="737" class="p737 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Why did he not put me to death in the womb,</p><p data-pid="737" class="p737 sz">So that my mother would become my burial place</p><p data-pid="737" class="p737 sz">And her womb would always remain pregnant?</p>
<p id="p738" data-pid="738" class="p738 sl"><span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Why did I have to come out of the womb</p><p data-pid="738" class="p738 sz">To see trouble and grief,</p><p data-pid="738" class="p738 sz">To end my days in shame?</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p id="p1755" data-pid="1755"><a href="1001061128-split20.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 20:12</span></a> Or “deepest emotions.” Lit., “kidneys.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p id="p1756" data-pid="1756"><a href="1001061128-split20.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 20:13</span></a> Or “the soul of the poor one.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
