<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061110"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_19.xhtml">1 - 51</a></p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="pos73800"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>Then the second lot came out for Simʹe·on, for the tribe of Simʹe·on by their families. And their inheritance was within the inheritance of Judah. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Their inheritance was Beʹer-sheʹba with Sheʹba, Mo·laʹdah, <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Haʹzar-shuʹal, Baʹlah, Eʹzem, <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> El·toʹlad, Beʹthul, Horʹmah, <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Zikʹlag, Beth-marʹca·both, Haʹzar-suʹsah, <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Beth-le·baʹoth, and Sha·ruʹhen—13 cities and their settlements; <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Aʹin, Rimʹmon, Eʹther, and Aʹshan—four cities and their settlements; <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and all the settlements that were around these cities as far as Baʹal·ath-beʹer, Raʹmah of the south. This was the inheritance of the tribe of Simʹe·on by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The inheritance of the descendants of Simʹe·on was taken out of the allotment of Judah, because the share of Judah was too large for them. So the descendants of Simʹe·on received a possession within their inheritance.</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos74678"></span><span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Next the third lot came up for the descendants of Zebʹu·lun by their families, and the boundary of their inheritance went as far as Saʹrid. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Their boundary went up westward to Marʹe·al and reached to Dabʹbe·sheth and then to the valley<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> in front of Jokʹne·am. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And it went from Saʹrid eastward toward the sunrise, to the border of Chisʹloth-taʹbor and out to Dabʹe·rath and then up to Ja·phiʹa. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And from there it continued eastward toward the sunrise to Gath-heʹpher, to Eth-kaʹzin, and out to Rimʹmon, and it extended to Neʹah. <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> And the boundary went around it on the north to Hanʹna·thon, and it ended at the Valley of Iphʹtah-el, <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> and Katʹtath, Na·halʹal, Shimʹron, Iʹda·lah, and Bethʹle·hem—12 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the descendants of Zebʹu·lun by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos75579"></span><span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The fourth lot came out for Isʹsa·char, for the descendants of Isʹsa·char by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And their boundary was to Jezʹre·el, Che·sulʹloth, Shuʹnem, <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Haphʹa·raʹim, Shiʹon, An·a·haʹrath, <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Rabʹbith, Kishʹi·on, Eʹbez, <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Reʹmeth, En-ganʹnim, En-hadʹdah, and Beth-pazʹzez. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the boundary reached to Taʹbor and Sha·ha·zuʹmah and Beth-sheʹmesh, and the end of their border was at the Jordan—16 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the tribe of Isʹsa·char by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos76159"></span><span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Then the fifth lot came out for the tribe of Ashʹer by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> And their boundary was Helʹkath, Haʹli, Beʹten, Achʹshaph, <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Al·lamʹme·lech, Aʹmad, and Miʹshal. It reached westward to Carʹmel and to Shiʹhor-libʹnath, <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> and it went back toward the east to Beth-daʹgon and reached to Zebʹu·lun and the Valley of Iphʹtah-el to the north, to Beth-eʹmek and Ne·iʹel, and it extended to Caʹbul on the left, <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> and to Eʹbron, Reʹhob, Hamʹmon, and Kaʹnah as far as Great Siʹdon. <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And the boundary went back to Raʹmah and as far as the fortified city of Tyre. Then the boundary went back to Hoʹsah, and it ended at the sea in the region of Achʹzib, <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Umʹmah, Aʹphek, and Reʹhob—22 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the tribe of Ashʹer <span id="page350" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="350" data-before-text="350"></span>by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos77037"></span><span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The sixth lot came out for the descendants of Naphʹta·li, for the descendants of Naphʹta·li by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Their boundary was from Heʹleph, from the big tree in Za·a·nanʹnim, and Adʹa·mi-neʹkeb and Jabʹne·el as far as Lakʹkum; and it ended at the Jordan. <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The boundary went back westward to Azʹnoth-taʹbor and extended from there to Hukʹkok and reached to Zebʹu·lun on the south and to Ashʹer on the west and to Judah at the Jordan toward the east. <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And the fortified cities were Zidʹdim, Zer, Hamʹmath, Rakʹkath, Chinʹne·reth, <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Adʹa·mah, Raʹmah, Haʹzor, <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> Keʹdesh, Edʹre·i, En-haʹzor, <span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Yiʹron, Migʹdal-el, Hoʹrem, Beth-aʹnath, and Beth-sheʹmesh—19 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the tribe of Naphʹta·li by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos77881"></span><span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> The seventh lot came out for the tribe of Dan by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And the border of their inheritance was Zoʹrah, Eshʹta·ol, Ir-sheʹmesh, <span id="chapter19_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Sha·al·abʹbin, Aiʹja·lon, Ithʹlah, <span id="chapter19_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> Eʹlon, Timʹnah, Ekʹron, <span id="chapter19_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Elʹte·keh, Gibʹbe·thon, Baʹal·ath, <span id="chapter19_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Jeʹhud, Benʹe-beʹrak, Gath-rimʹmon, <span id="chapter19_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> Me-jarʹkon, and Rakʹkon, with the border facing Jopʹpa. <span id="chapter19_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> But the territory of Dan was too cramped for them. So they went up and fought against Leʹshem and captured it and struck it with the sword. Then they took possession of it and settled in it, and they changed the name of Leʹshem to Dan, after the name of Dan their forefather. <span id="chapter19_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> This was the inheritance of the tribe of Dan by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="pos78665"></span><span id="chapter19_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> Thus they finished dividing the land for inheritance by its territories. Then the Israelites gave Joshua the son of Nun an inheritance in their midst. <span id="chapter19_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> At the order of Jehovah they gave him the city he asked for, Timʹnath-seʹrah, in the mountainous region of Eʹphra·im, and he built up the city and settled in it.</p>
<p id="p151" data-pid="151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> These were the inheritances that El·e·aʹzar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the paternal houses of the tribes of Israel distributed by lot in Shiʹloh before Jehovah, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So they finished apportioning the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p326" data-pid="326"><a href="1001061110-split19.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 19:11</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
