<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jude</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061169"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jude</a> <a href="bibleversenav65_1.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1637" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1637" data-before-text="1637"></span><strong>THE LETTER OF JUDE</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos70"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><strong><sup>1</sup></strong> Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ, but a brother of James, to the called ones who are loved by God the Father and preserved for Jesus Christ:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> May mercy and peace and love be increased to you.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos270"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Beloved ones, although I was making every effort to write you about the salvation we hold in common, I found it necessary to write you to urge you to put up a hard fight for the faith that was once for all time delivered to the holy ones. <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> My reason is that certain men have slipped in among you who were long ago appointed to this judgment by the Scriptures; they are ungodly men who turn the undeserved kindness of our God into an excuse for brazen conduct<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and who prove false to our only owner<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and Lord, Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Although you are fully aware of all of this, I want to remind you that Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those not showing faith. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And the angels who did not keep their original position but forsook their own proper dwelling place, he has reserved with eternal bonds in dense darkness for the judgment of the great day. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> In the same manner, Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah and the cities around them also gave <span id="page1638" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1638" data-before-text="1638"></span>themselves over to gross sexual immorality<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> and pursued unnatural fleshly desires; they are placed before us as a warning example by undergoing the judicial punishment of everlasting fire.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Despite this, these men too are indulging in dreams, defiling the flesh, despising authority, and speaking abusively of glorious ones. <span id="pos1592"></span><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But when Miʹcha·el the archangel had a difference with the Devil and was disputing about Moses’ body, he did not dare to bring a judgment against him in abusive terms, but said: “May Jehovah<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> rebuke you.” <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> But these men are speaking abusively about all the things they really do not understand. And in all the things that they do understand by instinct like unreasoning animals, they go on corrupting themselves.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Too bad for them, for they have followed the path of Cain and have rushed into the erroneous course of Baʹlaam for reward, and they have perished in the rebellious talk of Korʹah! <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> These are the rocks hidden below water at your love feasts while they feast with you, shepherds who feed themselves without fear; waterless clouds carried here and there by the wind; fruitless trees in late autumn, having died twice<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and having been uprooted; <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> wild waves of the sea that cast up the foam of their own shame; stars with no set course, for which the blackest darkness stands reserved forever.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos2638"></span><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Yes, the seventh one in line from Adam, Eʹnoch, also prophesied about them when he said: “Look! Jehovah<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> came with his holy myriads<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> to execute judgment against all, and to convict all the ungodly concerning all their ungodly deeds that they did in an ungodly way, and concerning all the shocking things that ungodly sinners spoke against him.”</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> These men are murmurers, complainers about their lot in life, following their own desires, and their mouths make grandiose boasts, while they are flattering others<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> for their own benefit.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sb"><span id="pos3197"></span><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> As for you, beloved ones, call to mind the sayings that have been previously spoken<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> how they used to say to you: “In the last time there will be ridiculers, following their own desires for ungodly things.” <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> These are the ones who cause divisions, animalistic men,<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> not having spirituality.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But you, beloved ones, build yourselves up on your most holy faith, and pray with holy spirit, <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> in order to keep yourselves in God’s love, while you await the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ with everlasting life in view. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Also, continue showing mercy to some who have doubts; <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> save them by snatching them out of the fire. But continue showing mercy to others, doing so with fear, while you hate even the garment that has been stained by the flesh.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sb"><span id="pos4031"></span><span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Now to the one who is able to guard you from stumbling and to make you stand unblemished in the sight of his glory<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> with great joy, <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> to the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, might, and authority for all past eternity and now and into all eternity. Amen.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p13" data-pid="13"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 4</span></a> Or “shameless conduct.” Greek, <em>a·selʹgei·a.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos12475">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p14" data-pid="14"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 4</span></a> Or “master.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p15" data-pid="15"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 5</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p16" data-pid="16"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 7</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p17" data-pid="17"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 9</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p18" data-pid="18"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 12</span></a> Or “being completely dead.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p19" data-pid="19"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 14</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p20" data-pid="20"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 14</span></a> Or “tens of thousands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p21" data-pid="21"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 16</span></a> Or “admiring personalities.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p22" data-pid="22"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 17</span></a> Or “the things foretold.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p23" data-pid="23"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 19</span></a> Or “physical men.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p24" data-pid="24"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 19</span></a> Lit., “the spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p id="p25" data-pid="25"><a href="1001061169.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jude 24</span></a> Or “in his glorious presence.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
