<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Peter 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061164"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Peter</a>  <a href="biblechapternav60.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav60_1.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1621" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1621" data-before-text="1621"></span><strong>THE FIRST OF PETER</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos70"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the temporary residents scattered about in Ponʹtus, Ga·laʹti·a, Cap·pa·doʹci·a, Asia, and Bi·thynʹi·a, to those chosen <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, with sanctification by the spirit, for the purpose of being obedient and sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb">May undeserved kindness and peace be increased to you.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos459"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Praised be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for according to his great mercy he gave us a new birth to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> to an incorruptible and undefiled and unfading inheritance. It is reserved in the heavens for you, <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> who are being safeguarded by God’s power through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last period of time. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Because of this you are greatly rejoicing, though for a short time, if it must be, you have been distressed by various trials, <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> in order that the tested quality of your faith, of much greater value than gold that perishes despite its being tested<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> by fire, may be found a cause for praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Though you never saw him, you love him. Though you do not see him now, yet you exercise faith in him and are greatly rejoicing with an indescribable and glorious joy, <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> as you attain the goal of your faith, your salvation.<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the undeserved kindness meant for you made a diligent inquiry and a careful search. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> They kept on investigating what particular time or what season the spirit within them was indicating concerning Christ as it testified beforehand about the sufferings meant for Christ and about the glory that would follow. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> It was revealed to them that they were ministering, not to themselves, but to you, regarding what has now been announced to you by those who declared the good news to you with holy spirit sent from heaven. Into these very things, angels are desiring to peer.</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2113"></span><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So brace up your minds for activity; keep your senses completely; set your hope on the undeserved kindness that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> As obedient children, stop being molded by<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> the desires you formerly had in your ignorance, <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> but like the Holy One who called you, become holy yourselves in all your conduct, <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for it is written: “You must be holy, because I am holy.”</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And if you are calling on the Father who judges impartially according to each one’s work, conduct yourselves with fear during the time of your temporary residence. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For you know that it was not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, that you were set free<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> from your futile way of life handed down to you by your forefathers.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But it was with precious blood, like that of an unblemished and spotless lamb, that of Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> True, he was foreknown before the founding of the world, but he was made manifest at the end of the times for your sake. <span id="page1622" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1622" data-before-text="1622"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Through him you are believers in God, the one who raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope might be in God.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Now that you have purified yourselves<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> by your obedience to the truth with unhypocritical brotherly affection as the result, love one another intensely from the heart. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For you have been given a new birth, not by corruptible, but by incorruptible seed,<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> through the word of the living and enduring God. <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For “all flesh is<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> like grass, and all its glory is like a blossom of the field; the grass withers, and the flower falls off, <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> but the saying<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> endures forever.” And this “saying”<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> is the good news that was declared to you.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p33" data-pid="33"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:7</span></a> Or “refined.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p34" data-pid="34"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:9</span></a> Or “the salvation of your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p35" data-pid="35"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:14</span></a> Or “fashioned after.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p36" data-pid="36"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:18</span></a> Lit., “you were ransomed; you were redeemed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p37" data-pid="37"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:18</span></a> Or “by tradition.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p38" data-pid="38"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:22</span></a> Or “your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p39" data-pid="39"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:23</span></a> That is, seed capable of reproducing, or bearing fruit.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p40" data-pid="40"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:24</span></a> Or “all humans are.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:25</span></a> Or “word.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p43" data-pid="43"><a href="1001061164.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Pet. 1:25</span></a> Or “word.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
