<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jonah 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061136"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jonah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav32.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav32_1.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1259" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1259" data-before-text="1259"></span><strong>JONAH</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos47"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>The word of Jehovah came to Joʹnah<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the son of A·mitʹtai, saying: <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Get up, go to Ninʹe·veh the great city, and proclaim judgment against her, for their wickedness has come to my attention.”</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But Joʹnah got up to run away from Jehovah to Tarʹshish; he went down to Jopʹpa and <span id="page1260" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1260" data-before-text="1260"></span>found a ship going to Tarʹshish. So he paid the fare and went aboard to go with them to Tarʹshish, away from Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos458"></span><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Jehovah hurled a strong wind at the sea, and there was such a violent storm on the sea that the ship was about to be wrecked. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The mariners were so frightened that each of them began to call on his god for help. And they began throwing the articles of the ship into the sea, to make it lighter. But Joʹnah had gone down into the inner part of the ship,<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> where he lay down and fell fast asleep. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The ship captain approached and said to him: “Why are you sleeping? Get up, call out to your god! Perhaps the true God will show his concern for us, and we will not perish.”</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1044"></span><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then they said to one another: “Come, let us cast lots to find out who is to blame for this calamity.” So they cast lots, and the lot fell to Joʹnah. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They said to him: “Please tell us, who is to blame for this calamity that has come upon us? What is your work, and where do you come from? What is your country, and from what people are you?”</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He replied: “I am a Hebrew, and I fear<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Jehovah the God of the heavens, the One who made the sea and the dry land.”</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> At this the men became even more afraid, and they asked him: “What have you done?” (The men learned that he was running away from Jehovah, because he had told them.) <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So they said to him: “What should we do to you to make the sea calm down for us?” For the sea was growing more and more stormy. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He replied: “Lift me up and throw me into the sea, and the sea will calm down for you; for I know that it is because of me that this violent storm has come upon you.” <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> However, the men rowed hard<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> to bring the ship back to dry land, but they could not, because the sea grew more and more stormy around them.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos2144"></span><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then they called out to Jehovah and said: “Ah, now, O Jehovah, please, may we not perish because of this man!<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> Do not hold us responsible for innocent blood, since you have done as you pleased, O Jehovah.” <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then they lifted Joʹnah up and threw him into the sea; and the sea ceased its raging. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then the men were struck with great fear of Jehovah, and they offered a sacrifice to Jehovah and made vows.</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos2564"></span><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Jehovah now sent a huge fish to swallow Joʹnah, so that Joʹnah came to be in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p41" data-pid="41"><a href="1001061136.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 1:1</span></a> Meaning “Dove.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p42" data-pid="42"><a href="1001061136.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 1:5</span></a> Or “decked vessel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p43" data-pid="43"><a href="1001061136.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 1:9</span></a> Or “worship.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p44" data-pid="44"><a href="1001061136.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 1:13</span></a> Or “tried to work their way through.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p45" data-pid="45"><a href="1001061136.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 1:14</span></a> Or “because of the soul of this man!”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
