<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061150"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_11.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos31349"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Become imitators of me, just as I am of Christ.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="pos31403"></span><span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I commend you because in all things you remember me and you are holding fast the traditions just as I handed them on to you. <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ; in turn, the head of a woman is the man; in turn, the head of the Christ is God. <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Every man who prays or prophesies with something on his head shames his head; <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> but every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered shames her head, for it is one and the same as if she were a woman with a shaved head. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> For if a woman does not cover herself, she should have her hair cut off; but if it is disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut off or shaved, she should be covered.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For a man should not have his head covered, as he is God’s image and glory, but the woman is man’s glory. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For man did not come from woman, but woman came from man. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And what is more, man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> That is why the woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Besides, in connection with the Lord, neither is woman separate from man nor is man separate from woman. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For just as the woman is from the man, so also the man is through the woman; but all things are from God. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Judge for yourselves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Does not nature itself teach you that long hair is a dishonor to a man, <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> but if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? For her hair is given to her instead of a covering. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> However, if anyone wants to argue in favor of some other custom, we have no other, nor do the congregations of God.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos33107"></span><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> But while giving these instructions, I do not commend you, because it is, not for the better, but for the worse that you meet together. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> For first of all, I hear that when you come together in a congregation, divisions exist among you; and to an extent I believe it. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For there will certainly also be sects among you, so that those of you who are approved may also become evident.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> When you come together in one place, it is not really <span id="page1537" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1537" data-before-text="1537"></span>to eat the Lord’s Evening Meal. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For when you eat it, each one takes his own evening meal beforehand, so that one is hungry but another is intoxicated. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Do you not have houses for eating and drinking? Or do you despise the congregation of God and make those who have nothing feel ashamed? What can I say to you? Should I commend you? In this I do not commend you.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For I received from the Lord what I also handed on to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night on which he was going to be betrayed took a loaf, <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> and after giving thanks, he broke it and said: “This means my body, which is in your behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.” <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He did the same with the cup also, after they had the evening meal, saying: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood. Keep doing this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.” <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> For whenever you eat this loaf and drink this cup, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he comes.</p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Therefore, whoever eats the loaf or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty respecting the body and the blood of the Lord. <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> First let a man approve himself after scrutiny, and only then let him eat of the loaf and drink of the cup. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For the one who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment against himself. <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> That is why many among you are weak and sick, and quite a few are sleeping in death.<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But if we would discern what we ourselves are, we would not be judged. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> However, when we are judged, we are disciplined by Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> so that we may not become condemned with the world. <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Consequently, my brothers, when you come together to eat it, wait for one another. <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that when you come together it is not for judgment. But as for the remaining matters, I will put them in order when I get there.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p183" data-pid="183"><a href="1001061150-split11.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 11:30</span></a> Evidently referring to spiritual death.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p184" data-pid="184"><a href="1001061150-split11.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 11:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5.</a></p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
