<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_12.xhtml">1 - 50</a></p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos44562"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12</strong> </span>At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples got hungry and started to pluck heads of grain and to eat. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At seeing this, the Pharisees said to him: “Look! Your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.” <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He said to them: “Have you not read what David did when he and the men with him were hungry? <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> How he entered into the house of God and they ate the loaves of presentation,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> something that it was not lawful for him or those with him to eat, but for the priests only? <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Or have you not read in the Law that on the Sabbaths the priests in the temple violate the Sabbath and continue guiltless? <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But I tell you that something greater than the temple is here. <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> However, if you had understood what this means, ‘I want mercy and not sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the guiltless ones. <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For the Son of man is Lord of the Sabbath.”</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos45483"></span><span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> After departing from that place, he went into their synagogue, <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and look! there was a man with a withered<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> hand! So they asked him, “Is it lawful to cure on the Sabbath?” so that they might accuse him. <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He said to them: “If you have one sheep and that sheep falls into a pit on the Sabbath, is there a man among you who will not grab hold of it and lift it out? <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> How much more valuable is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do a fine thing on the Sabbath.” <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then he said to the man: “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and it was restored sound like the other hand. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him to kill him. <span id="pos46170"></span><span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Having come to know this, Jesus departed from there. Many also followed him, and he cured them all, <span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> but he sternly ordered them not to make him known, <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, who said:</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “Look! My servant whom I chose, my beloved, whom I have<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> approved! I will put my spirit upon him, and what justice is he will make clear to the nations. <span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He will not quarrel nor cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the main streets. <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> No bruised reed will he crush, and no smoldering wick will he extinguish, until he brings justice with success. <span id="page1321" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1321" data-before-text="1321"></span><span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Indeed, in his name nations will hope.”</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos46848"></span><span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then they brought him a demon-possessed man who was blind and speechless, and he cured him, so that the speechless man could speak and see. <span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Well, all the crowds were astounded and began to say: “May this not perhaps be the Son of David?” <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> At hearing this, the Pharisees said: “This fellow does not expel the demons except by means of Be·elʹze·bub,<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> the ruler of the demons.” <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Knowing their thoughts, he said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself comes to ruin, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand. <span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> In the same way, if Satan expels Satan, he has become divided against himself; how, then, will his kingdom stand? <span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moreover, if I expel the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub, by whom do your sons expel them? This is why they will be your judges. <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> But if it is by means of God’s spirit that I expel the demons, the Kingdom of God has really overtaken you. <span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Or how can anyone invade the house of a strong man and seize his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man? Only then can he plunder his house. <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Whoever is not on my side is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.</p>
<p id="p97" data-pid="97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos48035"></span><span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “For this reason I say to you, every sort of sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the spirit will not be forgiven. <span id="chapter12_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For example, whoever speaks a word against the Son of man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the holy spirit, it will not be forgiven him, no, not in this system of things<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> nor in that to come.</p>
<p id="p98" data-pid="98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos48408"></span><span id="chapter12_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Either you make the tree fine and its fruit fine or make the tree rotten and its fruit rotten, for by its fruit the tree is known. <span id="chapter12_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Offspring of vipers, how can you speak good things when you are wicked? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. <span id="chapter12_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> The good man out of his good treasure sends out good things, whereas the wicked man out of his wicked treasure sends out wicked things. <span id="chapter12_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> I tell you that men will render an account on Judgment Day for every unprofitable saying that they speak; <span id="chapter12_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> for by your words you will be declared righteous, and by your words you will be condemned.”</p>
<p id="p99" data-pid="99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos49038"></span><span id="chapter12_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then as an answer to him, some of the scribes and the Pharisees said: “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.” <span id="chapter12_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> In reply he said to them: “A wicked and adulterous<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> generation keeps on seeking a sign, but no sign will be given it except the sign of Joʹnah the prophet. <span id="chapter12_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> For just as Joʹnah was in the belly of the huge fish for three days and three nights, so the Son of man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights. <span id="chapter12_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Men of Ninʹe·veh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at what Joʹnah preached. But look! something more than Joʹnah is here. <span id="chapter12_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> The queen of the south will be raised up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solʹo·mon. But look! something more than Solʹo·mon is here.</p>
<p id="p100" data-pid="100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos49922"></span><span id="chapter12_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> “When an unclean spirit comes out of a man, it passes through waterless places in <span id="page1322" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1322" data-before-text="1322"></span>search of a resting-place and finds none. <span id="chapter12_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Then it says, ‘I will go back to my house from which I moved,’ and on arriving, it finds the house unoccupied but swept clean and adorned. <span id="chapter12_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> Then it goes and takes along with it seven different spirits more wicked than itself, and after getting inside, they dwell there; and the final circumstances of that man become worse than the first. That is how it will be also with this wicked generation.”</p>
<p id="p101" data-pid="101" class="p101 sb"><span id="pos50465"></span><span id="chapter12_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> While he was yet speaking to the crowds, his mother and brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak to him. <span id="chapter12_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> So someone said to him: “Look! Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, seeking to speak to you.” <span id="chapter12_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> In reply he said to the one who spoke to him: “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?” <span id="chapter12_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> And extending his hand toward his disciples, he said: “Look! My mother and my brothers! <span id="chapter12_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, that one is my brother and sister and mother.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:4</span></a> Or “the showbread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:10</span></a> Or “paralyzed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:18</span></a> Or “my soul has.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:24</span></a> A designation applied to Satan.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:32</span></a> Or “this age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061144-split12.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 12:39</span></a> Or “unfaithful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
