<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_20.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="pos112485"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>Now King Ben-haʹdad of Syria gathered his whole army together along with 32 other kings and their horses and chariots; he went up and laid siege to Sa·marʹi·a and fought against it. <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then he sent messengers to King Aʹhab of Israel at the city and said to him: “This is what Ben-haʹdad says, <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> ‘Your silver and your gold are mine, as well as the best of your wives and your sons.’” <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> To this the king of Israel answered: “According to your word, my lord the king, I am yours along with all that belongs to me.”</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The messengers later came back and said: “This is what Ben-haʹdad says, ‘I sent this message to you: “Your silver, your gold, your wives, and your sons you will give me.” <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But about this time tomorrow I will send my servants to you, and they will carefully search your house and the houses of your servants, and all your desirable things they will seize and take away.’”</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At that the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said: “Take note, please, and see that this man is bent on bringing calamity, for he demanded my wives, my sons, my silver, and my gold, and I did not refuse him.” <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then all the elders and all the people said to him: “Do not obey, and do not consent.” <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So he said to the messengers of Ben-haʹdad: “Say to my lord the king, ‘All that you first demanded of your servant I will do, but this I cannot do.’” With that the messengers went off and brought word back to him.</p>
<p id="p185" data-pid="185" class="p185 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Ben-haʹdad now sent him this message: “So may the gods do to me and add to it if there is enough dust in Sa·marʹi·a to give each of the people following me a handful!” <span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> The king of Israel answered: “Tell him, ‘The one who puts on his armor should not boast about himself like one who takes it off.’” <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> As soon as he heard this reply, while he and the kings were drinking in their tents,<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> he said to his servants: “Get ready to attack!” So they got ready to attack the city.</p>
<p id="p186" data-pid="186" class="p186 sb"><span id="pos114423"></span><span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But a prophet approached King Aʹhab of Israel and said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘Have you seen all this large crowd? Here I am giving it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am Jehovah.’” <span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Aʹhab asked: “By whom?” to <span id="page517" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="517" data-before-text="517"></span>which he said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘By the attendants of the princes of the provinces.’”<span id="footnotesource226"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote226">*</a> So he asked: “Who will start the battle?” to which he said: “You!”</p>
<p id="p187" data-pid="187" class="p187 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Aʹhab then counted the attendants of the princes of the provinces, and they were 232; after that, he counted all the Israelite men, 7,000. <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They went out at noon while Ben-haʹdad was drinking himself drunk in the tents<span id="footnotesource227"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote227">*</a> along with the 32 kings who were helping him. <span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> When the attendants of the princes of the provinces came out first, Ben-haʹdad at once sent messengers. They reported to him: “Men have come out from Sa·marʹi·a.” <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> At that he said: “If they have come out for peace, take them alive; or if they have come out for battle, you should still take them alive.” <span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But when these came out of the city—the attendants of the princes of the provinces and the armies that were following them— <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> each one struck down his opponent. Then the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them, but King Ben-haʹdad of Syria escaped on a horse with some of the horsemen. <span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But the king of Israel went out and kept striking down the horses and the chariots, and he inflicted a great defeat<span id="footnotesource228"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote228">*</a> on the Syrians.</p>
<p id="p188" data-pid="188" class="p188 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Later the prophet approached the king of Israel and said to him: “Go, strengthen yourself and consider what you are going to do, for at the start of the next year<span id="footnotesource229"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote229">*</a> the king of Syria will come up against you.”</p>
<p id="p189" data-pid="189" class="p189 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now the servants of the king of Syria said to him: “Their God is a God of mountains. That is why they overpowered us. But if we fight against them on level land, we will overpower them. <span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Also do this: Remove all the kings from their places, and replace them with governors. <span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then gather<span id="footnotesource230"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote230">*</a> an army equal to the army you lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. Let us fight against them on level land, and we will surely overpower them.” So he listened to their advice and did just that.</p>
<p id="p190" data-pid="190" class="p190 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> At the start of the year,<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> Ben-haʹdad mustered the Syrians and went up to Aʹphek for battle against Israel. <span id="chapter20_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> The people of Israel were also mustered and supplied, and they went out to meet them. When the people of Israel camped in front of them, they were like two tiny flocks of goats, while the Syrians filled the whole land. <span id="chapter20_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then the man of the true God approached the king of Israel and said: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘Because the Syrians have said: “Jehovah is a God of mountains, and he is not a God of plains,” I will give all this large crowd into your hand, and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p191" data-pid="191" class="p191 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> They remained encamped opposite each other for seven days, and on the seventh day the battle began. The people of Israel struck down 100,000 Syrian foot soldiers in one day. <span id="chapter20_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And the rest fled to Aʹphek, into the city. But the wall fell down on 27,000 of the men who were left. Ben-haʹdad also fled and came into the city, and he hid in an inner room.</p>
<p id="p192" data-pid="192" class="p192 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> So his servants said to him: “Look, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings.<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> Please, let us wear sackcloth on our hips <span id="page518" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="518" data-before-text="518"></span>and put ropes on our heads and go out to the king of Israel. Perhaps he will spare your life.”<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So they wore sackcloth around their hips and ropes on their heads and came in to the king of Israel and said: “Your servant Ben-haʹdad says, ‘Please, let me<span id="footnotesource234"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote234">*</a> live.’” He replied: “Is he still alive? He is my brother.” <span id="chapter20_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> The men took it as an omen and quickly took him at his word, so they said: “Ben-haʹdad is your brother.” At that he said: “Go and get him.” Then Ben-haʹdad went out to him, and he had him get up into the chariot.</p>
<p id="p193" data-pid="193" class="p193 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Ben-haʹdad now said to him: “The cities that my father took from your father I will return, and you may establish markets<span id="footnotesource235"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote235">*</a> for yourself in Damascus, just as my father did in Sa·marʹi·a.”</p>
<p id="p194" data-pid="194" class="p194 sb">Aʹhab replied: “On the basis of this agreement,<span id="footnotesource236"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote236">*</a> I will let you go.”</p>
<p id="p195" data-pid="195" class="p195 sb">With that he made an agreement with him and let him go.</p>
<p id="p196" data-pid="196" class="p196 sb"><span id="pos118628"></span><span id="chapter20_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> By the word of Jehovah, one of the sons of the prophets<span id="footnotesource237"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote237">*</a> said to his companion: “Strike me, please.” But the man refused to strike him. <span id="chapter20_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> So he said to him: “Because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah, as soon as you leave me, a lion will kill you.”<span id="footnotesource238"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote238">*</a> After he left him, a lion came upon him and killed him.</p>
<p id="p197" data-pid="197" class="p197 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> He found another man and said: “Strike me, please.” So the man struck him and wounded him.</p>
<p id="p198" data-pid="198" class="p198 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Then the prophet went and waited for the king by the road, disguising himself with a bandage over his eyes. <span id="chapter20_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> As the king was passing by, he cried out to the king: “Your servant went into the thick of the battle, and there was a man coming out who brought a man to me and said, ‘Guard this man. If he is found missing, your life will have to take the place of his life,<span id="footnotesource239"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote239">*</a> or else you will pay a talent<span id="footnotesource240"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote240">*</a> of silver.’ <span id="chapter20_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> And while your servant was busy here and there, suddenly the man was gone.” The king of Israel said to him: “So your own judgment will be; you have decided it yourself.” <span id="chapter20_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Then he quickly removed the bandage from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized that he was one of the prophets. <span id="chapter20_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> He said to him: “This is what Jehovah says, ‘Because you have let the man who I said should be destroyed escape from your hand, your life must take the place of his life,<span id="footnotesource241"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote241">*</a> and your people the place of his people.’” <span id="chapter20_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> At that the king of Israel went home to Sa·marʹi·a, sullen and dejected.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p447" data-pid="447"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:12</span></a> Or “booths.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote226"><p id="p448" data-pid="448"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource226">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:14</span></a> Or “the jurisdictional districts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote227"><p id="p449" data-pid="449"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource227">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:16</span></a> Or “booths.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote228"><p id="p450" data-pid="450"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource228">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:21</span></a> Or “slaughter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote229"><p id="p451" data-pid="451"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource229">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:22</span></a> That is, next spring.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote230"><p id="p452" data-pid="452"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource230">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:25</span></a> Lit., “number.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p id="p453" data-pid="453"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:26</span></a> That is, in the spring.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p id="p454" data-pid="454"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:31</span></a> Or “are kings of loyal love.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p id="p455" data-pid="455"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:31</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote234"><p id="p456" data-pid="456"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource234">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:32</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote235"><p id="p457" data-pid="457"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource235">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:34</span></a> Or “assign streets.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote236"><p id="p458" data-pid="458"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource236">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:34</span></a> Or “covenant.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote237"><p id="p459" data-pid="459"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource237">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:35</span></a> “The sons of the prophets” seems to refer to a school of instruction for prophets or to an association of prophets.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote238"><p id="p460" data-pid="460"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource238">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:36</span></a> Or “strike you down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote239"><p id="p461" data-pid="461"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource239">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:39</span></a> Or “your soul will be in place of his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote240"><p id="p462" data-pid="462"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource240">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:39</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote241"><p id="p463" data-pid="463"><a href="1001061115-split20.xhtml#footnotesource241">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 20:42</span></a> Or “your soul will be in place of his soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
