<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_11.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="pos37809"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>I ask, then, God did not reject his people, did he? By no means! For I too am an Israelite, of the offspring<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> God did not reject his people, whom he first recognized. Do you not know what the scripture says in connection with E·liʹjah, as he pleads with God against Israel? <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> they have killed your prophets, they have dug up your altars, and I alone am left, and now they are trying to take my life.”<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Yet, what does the divine pronouncement say to him? “I have left for myself 7,000 men who have not bent the knee to Baʹal.” <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So in the same way, at the present time also, there is a remnant according <span id="page1519" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1519" data-before-text="1519"></span>to a choosing through undeserved kindness. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now if it is by undeserved kindness, it is no longer through works; otherwise, the undeserved kindness would no longer be undeserved kindness.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> What, then? The very thing Israel is earnestly seeking he did not obtain, but the ones chosen obtained it. The rest had their senses dulled, <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> just as it is written: “God has given them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes that do not see and ears that do not hear, down to this very day.” <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Also, David says: “Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a retribution for them. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Let their eyes become darkened so that they cannot see, and always make them bend their backs.”</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So I ask, They did not stumble and fall completely, did they? Certainly not! But by their false step, there is salvation to people of the nations, to incite them to jealousy. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now if their false step means riches to the world and their decrease means riches to people of the nations, how much more will their full number mean!</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Now I speak to you who are people of the nations. Seeing that I am an apostle to the nations, I glorify<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> my ministry <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> to see if I may in some way incite my own people<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a> to jealousy and save some from among them. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For if their being cast away means reconciliation for the world, what will the acceptance of them mean but life from the dead? <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Further, if the part of the dough taken as firstfruits is holy, the entire batch is also holy; and if the root is holy, the branches are also.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos40043"></span><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> However, if some of the branches were broken off and you, although being a wild olive, were grafted in among them and became a sharer of the richness of the olive’s root, <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> do not be arrogant toward<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> the branches. If, though, you are arrogant toward<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> them, remember that you do not bear the root, but the root bears you. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You will say, then: “Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.” <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> That is true! For their lack of faith, they were broken off, but you are standing by faith. Do not be haughty, but be in fear. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Consider, therefore, God’s kindness and severity. There is severity toward those who fell, but toward you there is God’s kindness, provided you remain in his kindness; otherwise, you too will be lopped off. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And they also, if they do not remain in their lack of faith, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them back in. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For if you were cut out of the olive tree that is wild by nature and were grafted contrary to nature into the garden olive tree, how much more will these who are natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree!</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> For I do not want you to be unaware of this sacred secret, brothers, so that you do not become wise in your own eyes: A partial dulling of senses has come upon Israel until the full number of people of the nations has come in, <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> and in this manner all Israel will be saved. Just as it is written: “The deliverer<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> will come out of Zion and turn away ungodly practices from Jacob. <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> And this is my covenant with them, when I take their sins <span id="page1520" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1520" data-before-text="1520"></span>away.” <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> True, with respect to the good news, they are enemies for your sakes; but with respect to God’s choosing, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> For the gifts and the calling of God are not things he will regret. <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> For just as you were once disobedient to God but have now been shown mercy because of their disobedience, <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> so also these now have been disobedient with mercy resulting to you, so that they themselves may also now be shown mercy. <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For God has confined all of them together in disobedience so that he might show all of them mercy.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos42315"></span><span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> O the depth of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge! How unsearchable his judgments are and beyond tracing out his ways are! <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> For “who has come to know Jehovah’s<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> mind, or who has become his adviser?” <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Or, “who has first given to him, so that it must be repaid to him?” <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Because from him and by him and for him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p145" data-pid="145"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:1</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p146" data-pid="146"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:3</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p147" data-pid="147"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:3</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p id="p148" data-pid="148"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:13</span></a> Or “magnify.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p id="p149" data-pid="149"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:14</span></a> Lit., “my flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p150" data-pid="150"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:18</span></a> Or “boast against.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p151" data-pid="151"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:18</span></a> Or “boast against.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p152" data-pid="152"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:26</span></a> Or “savior.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p153" data-pid="153"><a href="1001061149-split11.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 11:34</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
