<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_23.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p241" data-pid="241" class="p241 sb"><span id="page252" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="252" data-before-text="252"></span><span id="pos115596"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>Then Baʹlaam said to Baʹlak: “Build on this spot seven altars, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me.” <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Baʹlak immediately did just as Baʹlaam had said. And Baʹlak and Baʹlaam offered up a bull and a ram on each altar. <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Baʹlaam then said to Baʹlak: “Stay here by your burnt offering, and I will go. Perhaps Jehovah will get in touch with me. Whatever he reveals to me, I will tell you.” So he went to a barren hill.</p>
<p id="p242" data-pid="242" class="p242 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then God got in touch with Baʹlaam, who said to Him: “I set the seven altars in rows, and I offered up a bull and a ram on each altar.” <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah put this word in the mouth of Baʹlaam: “Return to Baʹlak, and this is what you are to say.” <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So he returned and saw that Baʹlak and all the princes of Moʹab were standing by his burnt offering. <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then he spoke this proverbial saying:</p>
<p id="p243" data-pid="243" class="p243 sz">“Baʹlak the king of Moʹab has brought me from Aʹram,</p><p data-pid="243" class="p243 sz">From the mountains of the east:</p>
<p id="p244" data-pid="244" class="p244 sz">‘Do come to curse Jacob for me.</p>
<p id="p245" data-pid="245" class="p245 sz">Yes, come to denounce Israel.’</p>
<p id="p246" data-pid="246" class="p246 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> How could I put a curse on those whom God has not cursed?</p>
<p id="p247" data-pid="247" class="p247 sz">And how could I denounce those whom Jehovah has not denounced?</p>
<p id="p248" data-pid="248" class="p248 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> From the top of the rocks I see them,</p><p data-pid="248" class="p248 sz">And from the hills I see them.</p>
<p id="p249" data-pid="249" class="p249 sz">As a people they dwell there alone;</p><p data-pid="249" class="p249 sz">They do not count themselves among the nations.</p>
<p id="p250" data-pid="250" class="p250 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Who can number the dust particles of Jacob</p><p data-pid="250" class="p250 sz">Or count even the fourth part of Israel?</p>
<p id="p251" data-pid="251" class="p251 sz">Let me<span id="footnotesource174"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote174">*</a> die the death of the upright,</p><p data-pid="251" class="p251 sz">And let my end be like theirs.”</p>
<p id="p252" data-pid="252" class="p252 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Baʹlak then said to Baʹlaam: “What have you done to me? I brought you to put a curse on my enemies, and here you have done nothing but bless them.” <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> He answered: “Must I not speak whatever Jehovah puts in my mouth?”</p>
<p id="p253" data-pid="253" class="p253 sb"><span id="pos117283"></span><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Baʹlak said to him: “Please come with me to another place from which you can see them. You will see only a part of them; you will not see them all. Put a curse on them for me from there.” <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So he took him to the field of Zoʹphim, to the top of Pisʹgah, and built seven altars and offered up a bull and a ram on each altar. <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So Baʹlaam said to Baʹlak: “Stay here by your burnt offering while I get in touch with Him over there.” <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And Jehovah got in touch with Baʹlaam and put this word in his mouth: “Return to Baʹlak, and this is what you are to say.” <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So he came to him and saw that he was waiting by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moʹab were with him. Baʹlak asked him: “What has Jehovah said?” <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then he spoke this proverbial saying:</p>
<p id="p254" data-pid="254" class="p254 sz">“Get up, Baʹlak, and listen.</p>
<p id="p255" data-pid="255" class="p255 sz">Hear me, O son of Zipʹpor.</p>
<p id="p256" data-pid="256" class="p256 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> God is not a mere man who tells lies,</p><p data-pid="256" class="p256 sz">Nor a son of man who changes his mind.<span id="footnotesource175"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote175">*</a></p>
<p id="p257" data-pid="257" class="p257 sz">When he says something, will he not do it?</p>
<p id="p258" data-pid="258" class="p258 sz">When he speaks, will he not carry it out?</p>
<p id="p259" data-pid="259" class="p259 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Look! I have been taken to bless;</p><p data-pid="259" class="p259 sz"><span id="page253" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="253" data-before-text="253"></span>Now He has blessed, and I cannot reverse it.</p>
<p id="p260" data-pid="260" class="p260 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He does not tolerate any magical power against Jacob,</p><p data-pid="260" class="p260 sz">And he does not allow any trouble against Israel.</p>
<p id="p261" data-pid="261" class="p261 sz">Jehovah his God is with them,</p><p data-pid="261" class="p261 sz">And he is loudly hailed as king among them.</p>
<p id="p262" data-pid="262" class="p262 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> God is bringing them out of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p263" data-pid="263" class="p263 sz">He is like the horns of a wild bull for them.</p>
<p id="p264" data-pid="264" class="p264 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> For there are no omens of doom against Jacob,</p><p data-pid="264" class="p264 sz">Nor any divination against Israel.</p>
<p id="p265" data-pid="265" class="p265 sz">At this time it may be said about Jacob and Israel:</p>
<p id="p266" data-pid="266" class="p266 sz">‘Look at what God has done!’</p>
<p id="p267" data-pid="267" class="p267 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Here is a people who will rise up like a lion,</p><p data-pid="267" class="p267 sz">And like the lion, it will raise itself up.</p>
<p id="p268" data-pid="268" class="p268 sz">It will not lie down until it eats prey</p><p data-pid="268" class="p268 sz">And drinks the blood of the slain ones.”</p>
<p id="p269" data-pid="269" class="p269 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Baʹlak then said to Baʹlaam: “If on the one hand you cannot put any curse on him, then on the other hand you should not bless him either.” <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Baʹlaam answered Baʹlak: “Did I not say to you, ‘I will do all that Jehovah says’?”</p>
<p id="p270" data-pid="270" class="p270 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Baʹlak said to Baʹlaam: “Please come and let me take you to yet another place. Perhaps it will be right in the eyes of the true God for you to put a curse on him for me from there.” <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So Baʹlak took Baʹlaam to the top of Peʹor, which looks toward Je·shiʹmon.<span id="footnotesource176"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote176">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Then Baʹlaam said to Baʹlak: “Build seven altars on this spot, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me.” <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> So Baʹlak did just as Baʹlaam had said, and he offered up a bull and a ram on each altar.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote174"><p id="p577" data-pid="577"><a href="1001061108-split23.xhtml#footnotesource174">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 23:10</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote175"><p id="p578" data-pid="578"><a href="1001061108-split23.xhtml#footnotesource175">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 23:19</span></a> Or “who feels regret.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote176"><p id="p579" data-pid="579"><a href="1001061108-split23.xhtml#footnotesource176">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 23:28</span></a> Or possibly, “the desert; the wilderness.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
