<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_22.xhtml">1 - 46</a></p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="pos93574"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22</strong> </span>Once more Jesus spoke to them with illustrations, saying: <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “The Kingdom of the heavens may be likened to a king who made a marriage feast for his son. <span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And he sent his slaves to call those invited to the marriage feast, but they were unwilling to come. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Again he sent other slaves, saying, ‘Tell those invited: “Look! I have prepared my dinner, my bulls and fattened animals are slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the marriage feast.”’ <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But unconcerned they went off, one to his own field, another to his business; <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> but the rest, seizing his slaves, treated them insolently and killed them.</p>
<p id="p170" data-pid="170" class="p170 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “The king grew wrathful and sent his armies and killed those murderers and burned their city. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Then he said to his slaves, ‘The marriage feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Therefore, go to the roads leading out of the city, and invite anyone you find to the marriage feast.’ <span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Accordingly, those slaves went out to the roads and gathered all they found, both wicked and good; and the room for the wedding ceremonies was filled with those dining.<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a></p>
<p id="p171" data-pid="171" class="p171 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “When the king came in to inspect the guests, he caught sight of a man not wearing <span id="page1336" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1336" data-before-text="1336"></span>a marriage garment. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> So he said to him, ‘Fellow, how did you get in here without a marriage garment?’ He was speechless. <span id="chapter22_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then the king said to his servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot and throw him into the darkness outside. There is where his weeping and the gnashing of his teeth will be.’</p>
<p id="p172" data-pid="172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “For there are many invited, but few chosen.”</p>
<p id="p173" data-pid="173" class="p173 sb"><span id="pos95127"></span><span id="chapter22_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then the Pharisees went and conspired together in order to trap him in his speech. <span id="chapter22_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So they sent their disciples to him, together with party followers of Herod, saying: “Teacher, we know you are truthful and teach the way of God in truth, and you do not seek anyone’s favor, for you do not look at the outward appearance of people. <span id="chapter22_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Tell us, then, what do you think? Is it lawful<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> to pay head tax to Caesar or not?” <span id="chapter22_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: “Why do you put me to the test, hypocrites? <span id="chapter22_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Show me the tax coin.” They brought him a de·narʹi·us.<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> <span id="chapter22_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> He said to them: “Whose image and inscription is this?” <span id="chapter22_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> They said: “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them: “Pay back, therefore, Caesar’s things to Caesar, but God’s things to God.” <span id="chapter22_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When they heard that, they were amazed, and they left him and went away.</p>
<p id="p174" data-pid="174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos95992"></span><span id="chapter22_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> On that day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came and asked him: <span id="chapter22_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “Teacher, Moses said: ‘If any man dies without having children, his brother must marry his wife and raise up offspring for his brother.’ <span id="chapter22_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Now there were seven brothers with us. The first married and died, and having no offspring, he left his wife for his brother. <span id="chapter22_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The same thing happened with the second and the third, through all seven. <span id="chapter22_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Last of all, the woman died. <span id="chapter22_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> So in the resurrection, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her as a wife.”</p>
<p id="p175" data-pid="175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said to them: “You are mistaken, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God; <span id="chapter22_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> for in the resurrection neither do men marry nor are women given in marriage, but they are as angels in heaven. <span id="chapter22_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Regarding the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God, who said: <span id="chapter22_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> ‘I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob’? He is the God, not of the dead, but of the living.” <span id="chapter22_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> On hearing that, the crowds were astounded at his teaching.</p>
<p id="p176" data-pid="176" class="p176 sb"><span id="pos97118"></span><span id="chapter22_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> After the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they came together in one group. <span id="chapter22_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And one of them, versed in the Law, tested him by asking: <span id="chapter22_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?” <span id="chapter22_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> He said to him: “‘You must love Jehovah<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> and with your whole mind.’ <span id="chapter22_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> This is the greatest and first commandment. <span id="chapter22_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> The second, like it, is this: ‘You must love your neighbor as yourself.’ <span id="chapter22_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> On these two commandments the whole Law hangs, and the Prophets.”</p>
<p id="p177" data-pid="177" class="p177 sb"><span id="pos97688"></span><span id="chapter22_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them: <span id="chapter22_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> “What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?” They said to him: “David’s.” <span id="chapter22_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> He asked them: “How is it, then, that David under inspiration calls him Lord, <span id="page1337" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1337" data-before-text="1337"></span>saying, <span id="chapter22_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> ‘Jehovah<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies beneath your feet”’? <span id="chapter22_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> If, then, David calls him Lord, how is he his son?” <span id="chapter22_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> And nobody was able to say a word in reply to him, and from that day on, no one dared to question him any further.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:10</span></a> Or “reclining at the table.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:17</span></a> Or “right.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:19</span></a> See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:37</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:37</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061144-split22.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 22:44</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
