<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_18.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos88064"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>After this he departed from Athens and came to Corinth. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he found a Jew named Aqʹui·la, a native of Ponʹtus who had recently come from Italy with Pris·cilʹla his wife, because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. So he went to them, <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and because he had the same trade, he stayed at their home and worked with them, for they were tentmakers by trade. <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> He would give a talk<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> in the synagogue every sabbath and would persuade Jews and Greeks.</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> When, now, both Silas and Timothy came down from Mac·e·doʹni·a, Paul began to be intensely <span id="page1489" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1489" data-before-text="1489"></span>occupied with the word, witnessing to the Jews to prove that Jesus is the Christ. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But after they kept on opposing him and speaking abusively, he shook out his garments and said to them: “Let your blood be on your own heads. I am clean. From now on I will go to people of the nations.” <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> So he transferred from there<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> and went into the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshipper of God, whose house adjoined the synagogue. <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But Crisʹpus, the presiding officer of the synagogue, became a believer in the Lord, along with all his household. And many of the Corinthians who heard began to believe and be baptized. <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Moreover, the Lord said to Paul in a vision by night: “Do not be afraid, but keep on speaking and do not keep silent, <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> for I am with you and no man will assault you to harm you; for I have many people in this city.” <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So he stayed there for a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> While Galʹli·o was proconsul<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> of A·chaʹia, the Jews made a concerted attack against Paul and led him to the judgment seat, <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> saying: “This man is persuading people to worship God in a way contrary to the law.” <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But as Paul was about to speak, Galʹli·o said to the Jews: “If, indeed, it were some wrong or a serious crime, O Jews, it would be reasonable for me to hear you out patiently. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But if it is controversies over speech and names and your own law, you yourselves must see to it. I do not wish to be a judge of these things.” <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> With that he drove them away from the judgment seat. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So they all seized Sosʹthe·nes, the presiding officer of the synagogue, and began beating him in front of the judgment seat. But Galʹli·o would not get involved at all with these things.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos90396"></span><span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> However, after staying quite a few days longer, Paul said good-bye to the brothers and sailed away for Syria, accompanied by Pris·cilʹla and Aqʹui·la. He had his hair clipped short in Cenʹchre·ae, for he had made a vow. <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> So they arrived at Ephʹe·sus, and he left them there; but he entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Although they kept requesting him to stay longer, he would not consent <span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> but said good-bye and told them: “I will return to you again, if Jehovah<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> is willing.” And he put out to sea from Ephʹe·sus <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> and came down to Caes·a·reʹa. And he went up<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> and greeted the congregation and then went down to Antioch.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos91066"></span><span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After spending some time there, he departed and went from place to place through the country of Ga·laʹti·a and Phrygʹi·a, strengthening all the disciples.</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos91230"></span><span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Now a Jew named A·polʹlos, a native of Alexandria, arrived in Ephʹe·sus; he was an eloquent man who was well-versed in the Scriptures. <span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> This man had been instructed<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> in the way of Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> and aglow with the spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately the things about Jesus, but he was acquainted only with the baptism of John. <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, and when Pris·cilʹla and Aqʹui·la heard him, they took him into their company and explained the <span id="page1490" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1490" data-before-text="1490"></span>way of God more accurately to him. <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Further, because he wanted to go across to A·chaʹia, the brothers wrote to the disciples, urging them to receive him kindly. So when he got there, he greatly helped those who through God’s undeserved kindness had become believers; <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> for publicly and with great intensity he thoroughly proved the Jews to be wrong, showing them from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:4</span></a> Or “He would reason with them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p id="p386" data-pid="386"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:7</span></a> That is, the synagogue.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p id="p387" data-pid="387"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:12</span></a> The Roman governor of a province. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos83880">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p id="p388" data-pid="388"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p id="p389" data-pid="389"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:22</span></a> To Jerusalem, apparently.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p id="p390" data-pid="390"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:25</span></a> Or “orally instructed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p id="p391" data-pid="391"><a href="1001061148-split18.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 18:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
