<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_21.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="pos88363"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>“If someone is found slain in a field of the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess and it is not known who killed him, <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> your elders and judges should go out and measure the distance from the dead body to the cities that surround it. <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Then the elders of the city nearest to the body should take from the herd a young cow that has never been put to work, that has never pulled in a yoke, <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and the elders of that city should lead the young cow down to a valley<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> running with water where no tilling or sowing of seed has been done, and they should break the neck of the young cow there in the valley.</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “And the priests, the Levites, will approach because Jehovah your God has chosen them to minister to him, to pronounce blessings in the name of Jehovah. They will declare how every dispute involving violence should be resolved. <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then all the elders of the city who are nearest to the dead body should wash their hands over the young cow whose neck was broken in the valley, <span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> and they should declare, ‘Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it shed. <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Do not hold this against your people Israel, whom you redeemed, O Jehovah, and do not let guilt for innocent blood remain among your people Israel.’ Then the bloodguilt will not be held against them. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In this way you will remove the guilt of innocent blood from your midst by doing what is right in Jehovah’s eyes.</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos89793"></span><span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “If you go to war against your enemies and Jehovah your God defeats them for you and you take them captive, <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> and you see among the captives a beautiful woman and you are attracted to her and you want to take her as your wife, <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> you may bring her into your house. She should then shave her head, attend to her nails, <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> and remove <span id="page303" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="303" data-before-text="303"></span>the clothing of her captivity, and dwell in your house. She will weep for her father and her mother a whole month, and afterward you may have relations with her; you will become her husband and she will become your wife. <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But if you are not pleased with her, you should then let her go wherever she wishes.<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> But you may not sell her for money or treat her harshly, since you have humiliated her.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="pos90554"></span><span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “If a man has two wives and he loves one more than the other<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> and both have borne sons to him and the firstborn son belongs to the unloved one, <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> on the day that he gives his inheritance to his sons, he will not be allowed to treat the son of the loved one as his firstborn at the expense of the son of the unloved one, the firstborn. <span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He should recognize as the firstborn the unloved one’s son by giving him the double portion of everything he has, for that one is the beginning of his procreative power. The right of the firstborn’s position belongs to him.</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="pos91129"></span><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “If a man has a son who is stubborn and rebellious and he does not obey his father or his mother, and they have tried to correct him but he refuses to listen to them, <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> his father and his mother should take hold of him and bring him out to the elders at the gate of his city <span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> and say to the elders of his city, ‘This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious, and he refuses to obey us. He is a glutton and a drunkard.’ <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then all the men of his city must stone him to death. So you must remove what is bad from your midst, and all Israel will hear and become afraid.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="pos91722"></span><span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “If a man commits a sin deserving the sentence of death and he has been put to death and you have hung him on a stake, <span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> his dead body should not remain all night on the stake. Instead, you should be sure to bury him on that day, because the one hung up is something accursed of God, and you should not defile your land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p id="p519" data-pid="519"><a href="1001061109-split21.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 21:4</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p id="p520" data-pid="520"><a href="1001061109-split21.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 21:14</span></a> Or “according to her soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p521" data-pid="521"><a href="1001061109-split21.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 21:15</span></a> Lit., “two wives, one loved and one hated.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
