<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061151"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav47.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav47_1.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page1544" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1544" data-before-text="1544"></span><strong>THE SECOND TO THE CORINTHIANS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos91"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through God’s will, and Timothy our brother, to the congregation of God that is in Corinth, including all the holy ones who are in all A·chaʹia:</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos369"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Praised be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> who comforts<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> us in all our trials<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> so that we may be able to comfort others in any sort of trial<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> with the comfort that we receive from God. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For just as the sufferings for the Christ abound in us, so the comfort we receive through the Christ also abounds. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Now if we face trials,<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are being comforted, it is for your comfort, which acts to help you to endure the same sufferings that we also suffer. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And our hope for you is unwavering, knowing as we do that just as you share in the sufferings, so you will also share in the comfort.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> For we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of the <span id="page1545" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1545" data-before-text="1545"></span>tribulation we experienced in the province of Asia. We were under extreme pressure beyond our own strength, so that we were very uncertain even of our lives. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> In fact, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. This was so that we would trust, not in ourselves, but in the God who raises up the dead. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> From such a great risk of death he did rescue us and will rescue us, and our hope is in him that he will also continue to rescue us. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> You also can help us by your supplication for us, in order that many may give thanks in our behalf for the favor we receive in answer to the prayers of many.<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos1777"></span><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For the thing we boast of is this, our conscience bears witness that we have conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you, with holiness and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but with God’s undeserved kindness. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For we are really not writing you about anything except what you can read<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and understand, and I hope you will continue to understand these things fully,<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> just as you have also understood to an extent that we are a cause for you to boast, just as you will also be for us in the day of our Lord Jesus.</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> So with this confidence, I was intending to come first to you, so that you might have a second occasion for joy;<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> for I intended to visit you on my way to Mac·e·doʹni·a, to return to you from Mac·e·doʹni·a, and then to have you send me off to Ju·deʹa. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Well, when I had such an intention, I did not view the matter lightly, did I? Or do I purpose things in a fleshly way, so that I am saying “Yes, yes” and then “No, no”? <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But God can be relied on that what we say to you is not “yes” and yet “no.” <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, that is, through me and Sil·vaʹnus<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> and Timothy, did not become “yes” and yet “no,” but “yes” has become “yes” in his case. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> For no matter how many the promises of God are, they have become “yes” by means of him. Therefore, also through him is the “Amen” said to God, which brings him glory through us. <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But the one who guarantees that you and we belong to Christ and the one who anointed us is God. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> He has also put his seal on us and has given us the token of what is to come,<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> that is, the spirit, in our hearts.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now I call on God as a witness against me<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> that it is to spare you that I have not yet come to Corinth. <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Not that we are the masters over your faith, but we are fellow workers for your joy, for it is by your faith that you are standing.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p66" data-pid="66"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:4</span></a> Or “encourages.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p67" data-pid="67"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:4</span></a> Or “tribulation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p68" data-pid="68"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:4</span></a> Or “tribulation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p69" data-pid="69"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:6</span></a> Or “tribulation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p70" data-pid="70"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:11</span></a> Or “because of many prayerful faces.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p71" data-pid="71"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:13</span></a> Or possibly, “what you already well know.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p id="p72" data-pid="72"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:13</span></a> Lit., “to the end.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p73" data-pid="73"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:15</span></a> Or possibly, “so that you might benefit twice.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p74" data-pid="74"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:19</span></a> Also called Silas.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p75" data-pid="75"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:22</span></a> Or “the down payment (earnest money); the guarantee (pledge) of what is to come.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p76" data-pid="76"><a href="1001061151.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Cor. 1:23</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
