<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_11.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p87" data-pid="87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos40723"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>When Jesus had finished giving instructions to his 12 disciples, he set out from there to teach and preach in their cities.</p>
<p id="p88" data-pid="88" class="p88 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> But John, having heard in jail about the works of the Christ, sent his disciples <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> to ask him: “Are you the Coming One, or are we to expect a different one?” <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said to them: “Go and report to John what you are hearing and seeing: <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> The blind are now seeing and the lame are walking, the lepers are being cleansed and the deaf are hearing, the dead are being raised up and the poor are being told the good news. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Happy is the one who finds no cause for stumbling in me.”</p>
<p id="p89" data-pid="89" class="p89 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> While these were on their way, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed being tossed by the wind? <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> What, then, did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft garments?<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> Why, those wearing soft garments are in the houses of kings. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Really, then, why did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and far more than a prophet. <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This is the one about whom it is written: ‘Look! I am sending my messenger ahead of you,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> who will prepare your way ahead of you!’ <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has not been raised up anyone greater than John the Baptist, but a lesser person in the Kingdom of the heavens is greater than he is. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> From the days of John the Baptist until now, the Kingdom of the heavens is the goal toward which men press, and those pressing forward are seizing it. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For all, the Prophets and the Law, prophesied until John; <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and if you are willing to accept it, he is ‘E·liʹjah who is to come.’ <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Let the one who has ears listen.</p>
<p id="p90" data-pid="90" class="p90 sb"><span id="pos42435"></span><span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “With whom will I compare this generation? It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to their playmates, <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> saying: ‘We played the flute for you, but you did not dance; we wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.’ <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Likewise, John came neither eating nor drinking, but people say, ‘He has a demon.’ <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The Son of man did come eating and drinking, but people say, ‘Look! A man who is a glutton and is given to drinking wine, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ All the same, wisdom is proved righteous<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> by its works.”<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a></p>
<p id="p91" data-pid="91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Then he began to reproach the cities in which most of his powerful works had taken place, for they did not repent: <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “Woe to you, Cho·raʹzin! Woe to you, Beth·saʹi·da! because if the powerful works that took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Siʹdon, they would long ago have repented in sackcloth and ashes. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But I say to you, it will be more endurable for Tyre and Siʹdon on Judgment Day than for you. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And you, Ca·perʹna·um, will you perhaps be exalted to heaven? Down to the Grave<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> you will come; because if the powerful works that took place in you had taken place in Sodʹom, <span id="page1320" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1320" data-before-text="1320"></span>it would have remained until this very day. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But I say to you, it will be more endurable for the land of Sodʹom on Judgment Day than for you.”</p>
<p id="p92" data-pid="92" class="p92 sb"><span id="pos43785"></span><span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> At that time Jesus said in response: “I publicly praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intellectual ones and have revealed them to young children. <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Yes, O Father, because this is the way you approved. <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one fully knows the Son except the Father; neither does anyone fully know the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son is willing to reveal him. <span id="pos44286"></span><span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Come to me, all you who are toiling and loaded down, and I will refresh you. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and you will find refreshment for yourselves.<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> For my yoke is kindly,<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> and my load is light.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:8</span></a> Or “fine clothing?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:10</span></a> Lit., “before your face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:19</span></a> Or “is vindicated.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:19</span></a> Or “by its results.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p314" data-pid="314"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:23</span></a> Or “Hades,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:29</span></a> Or “your souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061144-split11.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 11:30</span></a> Or “easy to bear.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
