<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061144"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Matthew</a>  <a href="biblechapternav40.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav40_19.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos79367"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>When Jesus had finished speaking these things, he departed from Galʹi·lee and came to the borders<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> of Ju·deʹa across the Jordan. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Also, large crowds followed him, and he cured them there.</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And Pharisees came to him intent on testing him, and they asked: “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife on every sort of grounds?” <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> In reply he said: “Have you not read that the one who created them from the beginning made them male and female <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> and said: ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and his mother and will stick to his wife, and the two will be one flesh’? <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So that they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has yoked together, let no man put apart.” <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> They said to him: “Why, then, did Moses direct giving a certificate of dismissal and divorcing her?” <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He said to them: “Out of regard for your hard-heartedness, Moses made the concession to you of divorcing your wives, but that has not been the case from the beginning. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except on the grounds of sexual immorality,<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> and marries another commits adultery.”</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos80482"></span><span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The disciples said to him: “If that is the situation of a man with his wife, it is not advisable to marry.” <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He said to them: “Not all men make room for the saying, but only those who have the gift. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For there are eunuchs who were born that way, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs on account of the Kingdom of the heavens. Let the one who can make room for it make room for it.”</p>
<p id="p146" data-pid="146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos80954"></span><span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then young children were brought to him for him to place his hands on them and offer prayer, but the disciples reprimanded them. <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Jesus, however, said: “Let the young children alone, and do not try to stop them from coming to me, for the Kingdom of the heavens belongs to such ones.” <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And he placed his hands on them and departed from there.</p>
<p id="p147" data-pid="147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos81316"></span><span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Now look! someone came up to him and said: “Teacher, what good must I do to gain everlasting life?” <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> He said to him: “Why do you ask me about what is good? One there is who is good. If, though, you want to enter into life, observe the commandments continually.” <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> He said to him: “Which ones?” Jesus said: “You must not murder, you must not commit adultery, you must not steal, you must not bear false witness, <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> honor your father and your mother, and you must love your neighbor as yourself.” <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The young man said to him: “I have kept all of these; what <span id="page1332" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1332" data-before-text="1332"></span>am I still lacking?” <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “If you want to be perfect,<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> go sell your belongings and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come be my follower.” <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When the young man heard this, he went away grieved, for he had many possessions. <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to his disciples: “Truly I say to you that it will be difficult for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of the heavens. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to get through a needle’s eye than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God.”</p>
<p id="p148" data-pid="148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos82462"></span><span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> When the disciples heard that, they were greatly astounded, saying: “Who really can be saved?” <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Looking at them intently, Jesus said to them: “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”</p>
<p id="p149" data-pid="149" class="p149 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then Peter said in reply: “Look! We have left all things and followed you; what, then, will there be for us?” <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Jesus said to them: “Truly I say to you, in the re-creation, when the Son of man sits down on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will sit on 12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit everlasting life.</p>
<p id="p150" data-pid="150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “But many who are first will be last, and the last first.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p363" data-pid="363"><a href="1001061144-split19.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 19:1</span></a> Or “frontiers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p364" data-pid="364"><a href="1001061144-split19.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 19:9</span></a> Greek, <em>por·neiʹa.</em> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos99714">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p365" data-pid="365"><a href="1001061144-split19.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Matt. 19:21</span></a> Or “complete.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
