<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061109"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>  <a href="biblechapternav5.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav5_19.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p126" data-pid="126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos81769"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>“When Jehovah your God destroys the nations whose land Jehovah your God is giving you and you have dispossessed them and have settled in their cities and their houses, <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> you should set apart three cities in the midst of your land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess. <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You should divide the territory of the land that Jehovah your God has given you to possess into three parts, and prepare the roads so that any manslayer can flee to one of those cities.</p>
<p id="p127" data-pid="127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> “Now this is what should take place regarding the manslayer who may flee there in order to live: When he strikes his fellow man unintentionally and he did not previously hate him; <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> as when he goes with his fellow man into the forest to gather wood and he raises his hand to cut the tree with the ax, but the axhead flies off the handle and hits his fellow man and he dies, the manslayer should flee to one of these cities to live. <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Otherwise, in the heat of anger,<span id="footnotesource133"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote133">*</a> the avenger of blood may chase after the manslayer, overtake him, and kill him, because the distance to the city was too far. However, he did not deserve to die, since he did not previously hate his fellow man. <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> That is why I am commanding you: ‘Set three cities apart.’</p>
<p id="p128" data-pid="128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> “If Jehovah your God enlarges your territory as he swore to your forefathers and he has given you all the land that he promised to give to your forefathers <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> —provided you faithfully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today, to love Jehovah your God and always to walk in his ways—then you are to add three other cities to these three. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> In this way no innocent blood will be spilled in your land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and no bloodguilt will come upon you.</p>
<p id="p129" data-pid="129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “But if a man hated his fellow man and he was waiting to attack him and he fatally wounded him<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> and he died, and the man has fled to one of these cities, <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> the elders of his city should then summon <span id="page301" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="301" data-before-text="301"></span>him from there and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, and he must die. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> You<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> should not feel sorry for him, and you must remove the guilt of innocent blood out of Israel, so that it may go well for you.</p>
<p id="p130" data-pid="130" class="p130 sb"><span id="pos83958"></span><span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “When you receive your inheritance in the land that Jehovah your God is giving you to possess, you must not move your neighbor’s boundary marker from the place where the ancestors set the boundaries.</p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos84166"></span><span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “No single witness may convict<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> another for any error or any sin that he may commit. On the testimony<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> of two witnesses or on the testimony of three witnesses the matter should be established. <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> If a malicious witness testifies against a man and charges him with some transgression, <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the two men who have the dispute will stand before Jehovah, before the priests and the judges who will be serving in those days. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> The judges will thoroughly investigate, and if the man who testified is a false witness and has brought a false charge against his brother, <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> you should do to him just as he had schemed to do to his brother, and you must remove what is bad from your midst. <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Those who remain will hear and be afraid, and they will never again do anything bad like this among you. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> should not feel sorry: Life<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> will be for life,<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote133"><p id="p510" data-pid="510"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource133">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:6</span></a> Lit., “because his heart is hot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p id="p511" data-pid="511"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:11</span></a> Or “his soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p id="p512" data-pid="512"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:13</span></a> Lit., “Your eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p id="p513" data-pid="513"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:15</span></a> Lit., “rise up against.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p id="p514" data-pid="514"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:15</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p id="p515" data-pid="515"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:21</span></a> Lit., “Your eye.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p id="p516" data-pid="516"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:21</span></a> Or “Soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p id="p517" data-pid="517"><a href="1001061109-split19.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">Deut. 19:21</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
