<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_11.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos37464"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>When Re·ho·boʹam arrived in Jerusalem, he immediately congregated the house of Judah and Benjamin, 180,000 trained<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> warriors, to fight against Israel in order to restore the kingdom to Re·ho·boʹam. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then the word of Jehovah came to She·maiʹah the man of the true God, saying: <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Say to Re·ho·boʹam the son of Solʹo·mon the king of Judah and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> ‘This is what Jehovah says: “You must not go up and fight against your brothers. Each of you return to his house, for I have caused this to happen.”’” So they obeyed the word of Jehovah and returned and did not go against Jer·o·boʹam.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Re·ho·boʹam lived in Jerusalem and built fortified cities in Judah. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Thus he built up<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> Bethʹle·hem, Eʹtam, Te·koʹa, <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Beth-zur, Soʹco, A·dulʹlam, <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Gath, Ma·reʹshah, Ziph, <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Ad·o·raʹim, Laʹchish, A·zeʹkah, <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Zoʹrah, Aiʹja·lon, and Hebʹron, fortified cities that were in Judah and Benjamin. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Further, he reinforced the <span id="page619" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="619" data-before-text="619"></span>fortified places and put commanders in them and supplied them with food and oil and wine, <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and he supplied all the different cities with large shields and lances; he reinforced them to a very great degree. And Judah and Benjamin remained his.</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos38694"></span><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel took their stand with him, coming out of all their territories. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> The Levites left their pastures and their possession and came to Judah and Jerusalem, because Jer·o·boʹam and his sons had dismissed them from serving as priests to Jehovah. <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Jer·o·boʹam then appointed his own priests for the high places and for the goatlike demons<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> and for the calves that he had made. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And those from all the tribes of Israel who had their heart set on seeking Jehovah the God of Israel followed them to Jerusalem to sacrifice to Jehovah the God of their forefathers. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For three years they strengthened the kingship of Judah and supported Re·ho·boʹam the son of Solʹo·mon, for they walked in the way of David and Solʹo·mon for three years.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="pos39509"></span><span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then Re·ho·boʹam took as his wife Maʹha·lath the daughter of David’s son Jerʹi·moth and of Abʹi·ha·il the daughter of Jesʹse’s son E·liʹab. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In time she bore him sons: Jeʹush, Shem·a·riʹah, and Zaʹham. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After her, he married Maʹa·cah the granddaughter of Abʹsa·lom. In time she bore him A·biʹjah, Atʹtai, Ziʹza, and She·loʹmith. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Re·ho·boʹam loved Maʹa·cah the granddaughter of Abʹsa·lom more than all his other wives and concubines, for he took 18 wives and 60 concubines, and he became father to 28 sons and 60 daughters. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So Re·ho·boʹam appointed A·biʹjah the son of Maʹa·cah as head and leader among his brothers, for he intended to make him king. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> However, he acted with understanding and sent<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> some of his sons to all the regions of Judah and Benjamin, to all the fortified cities, and gave them abundant provisions and acquired many wives for them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061118-split11.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 11:1</span></a> Lit., “chosen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061118-split11.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 11:6</span></a> Or “fortified.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061118-split11.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 11:15</span></a> Lit., “the goats.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061118-split11.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 11:23</span></a> Or “dispersed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
