<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_20.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p167" data-pid="167" class="p167 sb"><span id="pos66345"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20</strong> </span>Now Abraham moved his camp from there to the land of the Negʹeb and began dwelling between Kaʹdesh and Shur. While he was residing<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> at Geʹrar, <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Abraham repeated concerning his wife Sarah: “She is my sister.” So A·bimʹe·lech king of Geʹrar sent for Sarah and took her. <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Afterward, God came by night to A·bimʹe·lech in a dream and said to him: “Here you are as good as dead because of the woman whom you have taken, since she is married and belongs to another man.” <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> However, A·bimʹe·lech had not gone near her.<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> So he said: “Jehovah, will you kill a nation that is really innocent?<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Did he not say to me, ‘She is my sister,’ and did she too not say, ‘He is my brother’? I did this with an honest heart and innocent hands.” <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the true God said to him in the dream: “I know that you did this with an honest heart, so I held you back from sinning against me. That is why I did not allow you to touch her. <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now return the man’s wife, for he is a prophet, and he will make supplication for you and you will keep living. But if you are not returning her, know that you will surely die, you and all who are yours.”</p>
<p id="p168" data-pid="168" class="p168 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> A·bimʹe·lech got up early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things, and they became very frightened. <span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then A·bimʹe·lech called Abraham and said to him: “What have you done to us? What sin have I committed against you that you would bring upon me and my kingdom such a great sin? What you have done to me was not right.” <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And A·bimʹe·lech went on to say to Abraham: “What were your intentions when you did this thing?” <span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Abraham said: “It was because I said to myself, ‘Surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.’ <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And besides, she really is my sister, the daughter of my father but not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. <span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> So when God caused me to wander from the house of my father, I said to her: ‘Let this be how you show loyal love to me: Everywhere we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”</p>
<p id="p169" data-pid="169" class="p169 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> A·bimʹe·lech then took sheep and cattle and male and female servants and gave them to Abraham, and he returned his wife Sarah to him. <span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> A·bimʹe·lech also said: “Here my land is available to you. Dwell wherever you please.” <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And to Sarah he said: “Here I give 1,000 pieces of silver to your brother. It is a sign of your innocence<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> to all who are with you and before everybody, and you are cleared of reproach.” <span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And Abraham began to make supplication to the true God, and God healed A·bimʹe·lech and his wife and his slave girls, and they began having children; <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> for Jehovah had made all the women of the house of A·bimʹe·lech <span id="page66" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="66" data-before-text="66"></span>barren<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a> because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p id="p611" data-pid="611"><a href="1001061105-split20.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 20:1</span></a> Or “living as a foreigner.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p612" data-pid="612"><a href="1001061105-split20.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 20:4</span></a> That is, he had not had sexual relations with her.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p id="p613" data-pid="613"><a href="1001061105-split20.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 20:4</span></a> Or “righteous.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p id="p614" data-pid="614"><a href="1001061105-split20.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 20:16</span></a> Lit., “Look, it is for you a covering of the eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p id="p615" data-pid="615"><a href="1001061105-split20.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 20:18</span></a> Or “had completely closed every womb of the house of Abimelech.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
