<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061117"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_25.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p222" data-pid="222" class="p222 sb"><span id="pos97292"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25</strong> </span>Further, David and the chiefs of the groups for the service separated some of the sons of Aʹsaph, Heʹman, and Je·duʹthun to serve by prophesying with the harps, the stringed instruments, and the cymbals. The list of the official men for this service was, <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> of the sons of Aʹsaph: Zacʹcur, Joseph, Neth·a·niʹah, and Ash·a·reʹlah, the sons of Aʹsaph under the direction of Aʹsaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king. <span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Of Je·duʹthun, the sons of Je·duʹthun: Ged·a·liʹah, Zeʹri, Je·shaʹiah, Shimʹe·i, Hash·a·biʹah, and Mat·ti·thiʹah, six, under the direction of their father Je·duʹthun, who prophesied with the harp, thanking and praising Jehovah. <span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Of Heʹman, the sons of Heʹman: Buk·kiʹah, Mat·ta·niʹah, Uzʹzi·el, Shebʹu·el, Jerʹi·moth, Han·a·niʹah, Ha·naʹni, E·liʹa·thah, Gid·dalʹti, Ro·mamʹti-eʹzer, Josh·be·kashʹah, Mal·loʹthi, Hoʹthir, and Ma·haʹzi·oth. <span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> All of these were sons of Heʹman, a visionary of the king in matters pertaining to the true God to his glory;<span id="footnotesource145"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote145">*</a> thus the true God gave Heʹman 14 sons and 3 daughters. <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> All of these were under the direction of their father for singing at the house of Jehovah, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and harps for the service of the house of the true God.</p>
<p id="p223" data-pid="223" class="p223 sb">Under the king’s direction were Aʹsaph, Je·duʹthun, and Heʹman.</p>
<p id="p224" data-pid="224" class="p224 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The number of them and their brothers who were trained in song to Jehovah, all experts, was 288. <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So they cast lots for their duties, the small and the great alike, the expert along with the learner.</p>
<p id="p225" data-pid="225" class="p225 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The first lot to come out belonged to Aʹsaph for Joseph, the second for Ged·a·liʹah (he and his brothers and his sons were 12); <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> the third for Zacʹcur, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> the fourth for Izʹri, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> the fifth for Neth·a·niʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> the sixth for Buk·kiʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> the seventh for Jesh·a·reʹlah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> the eighth for Je·shaʹiah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> the ninth for Mat·ta·niʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> the tenth for Shimʹe·i, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> the 11th for Azʹar·el, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> the 12th for Hash·a·biʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> for the 13th, Shuʹba·el, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> for the 14th, Mat·ti·thiʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> for the 15th, for Jerʹe·moth, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> for the 16th, for Han·a·niʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> for the 17th, for Josh·be·kashʹah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> for the 18th, for Ha·naʹni, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> for the 19th, for Mal·loʹthi, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> for the 20th, for E·liʹa·thah, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> for the 21st, for Hoʹthir, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> for the 22nd, for Gid·dalʹti, his sons <span id="page599" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="599" data-before-text="599"></span>and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> for the 23rd, for Ma·haʹzi·oth, his sons and his brothers, 12; <span id="chapter25_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> for the 24th, for Ro·mamʹti-eʹzer, his sons and his brothers, 12.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote145"><p id="p395" data-pid="395"><a href="1001061117-split25.xhtml#footnotesource145">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 25:5</span></a> Lit., “to raise up his horn.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
