<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_6.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p36" data-pid="36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos17057"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6</strong> </span>Jehovah went on to say to Moses: <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “If someone<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> sins and behaves unfaithfully toward Jehovah by deceiving his neighbor in connection with something entrusted to him, or something deposited with him, or he robs or defrauds his neighbor, <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> or he finds something lost and is deceptive about it, and if he swears falsely over any such sin he may commit, this is what he should do: <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> If he has sinned and is guilty, he must return what he stole, what he extorted, what he took by fraud, what was entrusted to him, or the lost thing that he found, <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> or anything about which he swore falsely, and he must make full compensation for it, and he will add to it a fifth of its value. He will give it to the owner on the day his guilt is proved. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he will bring to the priest as his guilt offering to Jehovah a sound ram from the flock according to the assessed value, for a guilt offering. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The priest will make atonement for him before Jehovah, and he will be forgiven for anything he may have done resulting in his guilt.”</p>
<p id="p37" data-pid="37" class="p37 sb"><span id="pos18092"></span><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “Command Aaron and his sons and say, ‘This is the law of the burnt offering: The burnt offering will remain on the hearth on the altar all night long until the morning, and the fire will be kept burning on the altar. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> The priest will clothe himself with his official dress of linen, and he will put the linen shorts<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> on over his flesh. Then he will remove the ashes<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> of the burnt offering that the fire had consumed on the altar and place them beside the altar. <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then he will take off his garments and put on other garments and take the ashes to a clean place outside the camp. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The fire will be kept burning on the altar. It must not go out. The priest must burn wood on it each morning and arrange the burnt offering over it, and he will make the fat of the communion sacrifices smoke over it. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Fire will be kept constantly burning on the altar. It must not go out.</p>
<p id="p38" data-pid="38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos19033"></span><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘Now this is the law of the grain offering: You sons of Aaron are to present it before Jehovah in front of the altar. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> One of them will take a handful from the fine flour of the grain offering and some of its oil and all the frankincense that is on the grain offering, and he will make it smoke on the altar as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> aroma for a token offering<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> to Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Aaron and his sons will eat what is left of it. It will be eaten as unleavened bread in a holy place. They will eat it in the courtyard of the tent of meeting. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> It should not be baked with anything leavened. I have given it as their share out of my offerings made by fire. It is something most holy, like the sin offering and like the guilt offering. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Every <span id="page178" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="178" data-before-text="178"></span>male among the sons of Aaron will eat it. It is their permanent allowance throughout your generations from Jehovah’s offerings made by fire. Everything that touches them<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> will become holy.’”</p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke again to Moses: <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “This is the offering that Aaron and his sons will present to Jehovah on the day he is anointed: the tenth of an eʹphah<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> of fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening. <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> It will be made with oil on a griddle. You will bring it well-mixed with oil and present it in pieces as a baked product of the grain offering as a pleasing<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> aroma to Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The anointed priest who succeeds him from among his sons will make it. It is a lasting regulation: As a whole offering it will be made to smoke to Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Every grain offering of a priest should be a whole offering. It must not be eaten.”</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos20678"></span><span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke again to Moses and said: <span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “Tell Aaron and his sons, ‘This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is slaughtered, the sin offering will also be slaughtered before Jehovah. It is a most holy thing. <span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> The priest who offers it for sin will eat it. It will be eaten in a holy place, in the courtyard of the tent of meeting.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “‘Everything that touches its flesh will become holy, and when anyone spatters some of its blood on his garment, you should wash what was spattered with blood in a holy place. <span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> The earthenware vessel in which it was boiled is to be shattered. But if it was boiled in a copper vessel, then the vessel must be scoured and washed with water.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “‘Every male among the priests will eat it. It is something most holy. <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> However, no sin offering is to be eaten if some of its blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place. It is to be burned with fire.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:2</span></a> Or “a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:10</span></a> Or “undergarments.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:10</span></a> Or “fatty ashes,” that is, ashes soaked with the fat of the sacrifices.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:15</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:15</span></a> Or “as a memorial (representative) portion of it.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p322" data-pid="322"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:18</span></a> Or “the offerings.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p323" data-pid="323"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:20</span></a> A tenth of an ephah equaled 2.2 L (2 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p324" data-pid="324"><a href="1001061107-split6.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 6:21</span></a> Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
