<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_23.xhtml">1 - 56</a></p>
<p id="p208" data-pid="208" class="p208 sb"><span id="pos132586"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23</strong> </span>So the multitude got up, one and all, and led him to Pilate. <span id="chapter23_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then they began to accuse him, saying: “We found this man subverting our nation, forbidding the paying of taxes to Caesar, and saying he himself is Christ a king.” <span id="chapter23_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Now Pilate asked him the question: “Are you the King of the Jews?” In answer he said: “You yourself are saying it.” <span id="chapter23_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds: “I find no crime in this man.” <span id="chapter23_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But they insisted, saying: “He stirs up the people by teaching throughout all Ju·deʹa, starting from Galʹi·lee even to here.” <span id="chapter23_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> On hearing that, Pilate asked whether the man was a Gal·i·leʹan. <span id="chapter23_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> After ascertaining that he was under the jurisdiction of Herod, he sent him on to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem in those days.</p>
<p id="p209" data-pid="209" class="p209 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When Herod saw Jesus, he rejoiced greatly. For a considerable time he had been wanting to see Jesus because he had heard much about him, and he was hoping to see some sign performed by him. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So he began to question him at length, but he gave him no answer. <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> However, the chief priests and the scribes kept standing up and vehemently accusing him. <span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Then Herod together with his soldiers treated him with contempt, and he mocked him by clothing him with a splendid garment and then sent him back to Pilate. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Herod and Pilate became friends with each other on that very day, for before that they had been at enmity with each other.</p>
<p id="p210" data-pid="210" class="p210 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Pilate then called together the chief priests, the rulers, and the people <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and said to them: “You brought this man to me as one inciting the people to revolt. Now look! I examined him in front of you but found in this man no grounds for the charges you are bringing against him. <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> In fact, neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us, and look! he has done nothing deserving of death. <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> I will therefore punish him and release him.” <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> —— <span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But the whole crowd shouted out: “Do away with this man,<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> and release Bar·abʹbas to us!” <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> (This man had been thrown into prison for sedition that had occurred in the city and for murder.) <span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Again Pilate called out to them, because he wanted to release Jesus. <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then they began to yell, saying: “To the stake with him! To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource212"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote212">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The third time he said to them: “Why? What <span id="page1421" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1421" data-before-text="1421"></span>bad thing did this man do? I found in him nothing deserving of death; I will therefore punish him and release him.” <span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> At this they became insistent, demanding with loud voices that he be executed,<span id="footnotesource213"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote213">*</a> and their voices prevailed. <span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So Pilate made the decision that their demand be met. <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> He released the man whom they were demanding, who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, but he surrendered Jesus to their will.</p>
<p id="p211" data-pid="211" class="p211 sb"><span id="pos135364"></span><span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Now as they led him away, they seized a certain Simon of Cy·reʹne, who was coming from the countryside, and they placed the torture stake<span id="footnotesource214"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote214">*</a> on him to carry it behind Jesus. <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> A large number of people were following him, including women who kept beating themselves in grief and wailing for him. <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Jesus turned to the women and said: “Daughters of Jerusalem, stop weeping for me. Weep instead for yourselves and for your children; <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> for look! days are coming when people will say, ‘Happy are the barren women, the wombs that did not give birth and the breasts that did not nurse!’ <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Then they will start saying to the mountains, ‘Fall over us!’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us over!’ <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> If they do these things when the tree is moist, what will occur when it is withered?”</p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Two other men, criminals, were also being led off to be executed with him. <span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And when they got to the place called Skull, they nailed him to the stake there alongside the criminals, one on his right and one on his left. <span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But Jesus was saying: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.” Furthermore, they cast lots to distribute his garments. <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And the people stood looking on. But the rulers were sneering and saying: “Others he saved; let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the Chosen One.” <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Even the soldiers mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine <span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> and saying: “If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself.” <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> There was also an inscription over him: “This is the King of the Jews.”</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Then one of the criminals hanging there began to speak abusively to him, saying: “You are the Christ, are you not? Save yourself and us too!” <span id="chapter23_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> In response the other rebuked him, saying: “Do you not fear God at all, now that you have received the same judgment? <span id="chapter23_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> And we rightly so, for we are getting back what we deserve for the things we did; but this man did nothing wrong.” <span id="chapter23_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Then he said: “Jesus, remember me when you get into your Kingdom.” <span id="pos137412"></span><span id="chapter23_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> And he said to him: “Truly I tell you today, you will be with me in Paradise.”</p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sb"><span id="pos137499"></span><span id="chapter23_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> Well, by now it was about the sixth hour,<span id="footnotesource215"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote215">*</a> and yet a darkness fell over all the land until the ninth hour,<span id="footnotesource216"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote216">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> because the sunlight failed; then the curtain of the sanctuary was torn down the middle. <span id="chapter23_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> And Jesus called out with a loud voice and said: “Father, into your hands I entrust my spirit.” After he said this, he expired.<span id="footnotesource217"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote217">*</a> <span id="chapter23_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Because of seeing what occurred, the army officer began to glorify God, saying: “Truly, this man was righteous.” <span id="chapter23_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> And when all the crowds that were gathered together there for this spectacle saw <span id="page1422" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1422" data-before-text="1422"></span>the things that occurred, they returned home, beating their chests. <span id="chapter23_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> And all those acquainted with him were standing at a distance. Also, women who had accompanied him from Galʹi·lee were there and saw these things.</p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="pos138286"></span><span id="chapter23_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> And look! there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, who was a good and righteous man. <span id="chapter23_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> (This man had not voted in support of their scheme and action.) He was from Ar·i·ma·theʹa, a city of the Ju·deʹans, and was waiting for the Kingdom of God. <span id="chapter23_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> This man went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. <span id="chapter23_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53</sup></strong> And he took it down and wrapped it up in fine linen, and he laid it in a tomb<span id="footnotesource218"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote218">*</a> carved in the rock, where no man had yet lain. <span id="chapter23_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54</sup></strong> Now it was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was about to begin. <span id="chapter23_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55</sup></strong> But the women who had come with him from Galʹi·lee followed along and took a look at the tomb<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> and saw how his body was laid, <span id="chapter23_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56</sup></strong> and they went back to prepare spices and perfumed oils. But, of course, they rested on the Sabbath according to the commandment.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p435" data-pid="435"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:17</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p436" data-pid="436"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:18</span></a> Lit., “Take this one away.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote212"><p id="p437" data-pid="437"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource212">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:21</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake! Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote213"><p id="p438" data-pid="438"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource213">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:23</span></a> Or “executed on the stake.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote214"><p id="p439" data-pid="439"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource214">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:26</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote215"><p id="p440" data-pid="440"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource215">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:44</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote216"><p id="p441" data-pid="441"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource216">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:44</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote217"><p id="p442" data-pid="442"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource217">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:46</span></a> Or “he breathed his last.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote218"><p id="p443" data-pid="443"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource218">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:53</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p id="p444" data-pid="444"><a href="1001061146-split23.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 23:55</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
