<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_10.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos34993"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>Brothers, the goodwill of my heart and my supplication to God for them are indeed for their salvation. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to accurate knowledge. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For because of not knowing <span id="page1518" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1518" data-before-text="1518"></span>the righteousness of God but seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For Christ is the end of the Law, so that everyone exercising faith may have righteousness.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For Moses writes about the righteousness that is by the Law: “The man who does these things will live by means of them.” <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> But the righteousness resulting from faith says: “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’ that is, to bring Christ down, <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> or, ‘Who will descend into the abyss?’ that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.” <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your own mouth and in your own heart”; that is, “the word” of faith, which we are preaching. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For if you publicly declare with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and exercise faith in your heart that God raised him up from the dead, you will be saved. <span id="pos36125"></span><span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For with the heart one exercises faith for righteousness, but with the mouth one makes public declaration for salvation.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> For the scripture says: “No one who rests his faith on him will be disappointed.” <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. There is the same Lord over all, who is rich<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> toward all those calling on him. <span id="pos36482"></span><span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> For “everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> will be saved.” <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> However, how will they call on him if they have not put faith in him? How, in turn, will they put faith in him about whom they have not heard? How, in turn, will they hear without someone to preach? <span id="pos36760"></span><span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> How, in turn, will they preach unless they have been sent out? Just as it is written: “How beautiful are the feet of those who declare good news of good things!”</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="pos36931"></span><span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Nevertheless, they did not all obey the good news. For Isaiah says: “Jehovah,<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> who has put faith in the thing heard from us?”<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> So faith follows the thing heard. In turn, what is heard is through the word about Christ. <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But I ask, They did not fail to hear, did they? Why, in fact, “into all the earth their sound went out, and to the ends of the inhabited earth their message.” <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But I ask, Israel did not fail to know, did they? First Moses says: “I will incite you to jealousy through that which is not a nation; I will incite you to violent anger through a foolish nation.” <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But Isaiah becomes very bold and says: “I was found by those who were not seeking me; I became known to those who were not asking for me.” <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> But he says regarding Israel: “All day long I have spread out my hands toward a disobedient and obstinate people.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p id="p141" data-pid="141"><a href="1001061149-split10.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 10:12</span></a> Or “generous.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p142" data-pid="142"><a href="1001061149-split10.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 10:13</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p143" data-pid="143"><a href="1001061149-split10.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 10:16</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p144" data-pid="144"><a href="1001061149-split10.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 10:16</span></a> Or “in our report?”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
