<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061114"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_1.xhtml">1 - 27</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page442" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="442" data-before-text="442"></span><strong>THE SECOND OF SAMUEL</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos73"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>After Saul’s death, when David had returned from defeating<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the A·malʹek·ites, David stayed at Zikʹlag for two days. <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> On the third day, a man came from the camp of Saul with his garments ripped apart and dirt on his head. When he approached David, he fell down to the ground and prostrated himself.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> David asked him: “Where are you coming from?” He replied: “I have escaped from the camp of Israel.” <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> David asked him: “How did things turn out? Please tell me.” To this he said: “The people have fled from the battle and many have fallen and died. Even Saul and his son Jonʹa·than have died.” <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then David asked the young man who brought him the news: “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonʹa·than are dead?” <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The young man replied: “By chance I was on Mount Gil·boʹa, and there was Saul supporting himself on his spear, and the chariots and horsemen had caught up with him. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> When he turned around and saw me, he called me, and I said, ‘Here I am!’ <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> He asked me, ‘Who are you?’ I replied, ‘I am an A·malʹek·ite.’ <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Then he said, ‘Please stand over me and put me to death, for I am in great agony, but I am still alive.’<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So I stood over him and put him to death, for I knew that he could not survive after he had fallen down wounded. Then I took the crown<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> that was on his head and the bracelet that was on his arm, and I brought them here to my lord.”</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> At this David took hold of his garments and ripped them apart, and so did all the men who were with him. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And they wailed and wept and fasted until evening for Saul, for his son Jonʹa·than, for the people of Jehovah, and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> David asked the young man who brought him the news: “Where are you from?” He said: “I am the son of a foreign resident, an A·malʹek·ite.” <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then David said to him: “Why did you not fear to lift your hand to do away with the anointed of Jehovah?” <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> With that David called one of the young men and said: “Step forward and strike him.” So he struck him down, and he died. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> David said to him: “Your blood is on your own head, because your own mouth testified against you by saying, ‘I myself put the anointed of Jehovah to death.’”</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2319"></span><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then David chanted this dirge<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> over Saul and his son Jonʹa·than <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and said that the people of Judah should be taught the dirge called “The Bow,” which is written in the book of Jaʹshar:</p>
<p id="p7" data-pid="7" class="p7 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “The beauty, O Israel, lies slain upon your high places.</p>
<p id="p8" data-pid="8" class="p8 sz">How the mighty have fallen!</p>
<p id="p9" data-pid="9" class="p9 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Do not tell it in Gath;</p><p data-pid="9" class="p9 sz">Do not announce it in the streets of Ashʹke·lon,</p><p data-pid="9" class="p9 sz">Or the daughters of the Phi·lisʹtines will rejoice,</p><p data-pid="9" class="p9 sz">Or the daughters of the uncircumcised men will exult.</p>
<p id="p10" data-pid="10" class="p10 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> You mountains of Gil·boʹa,</p><p data-pid="10" class="p10 sz">May there be no dew or rain upon you,</p><p data-pid="10" class="p10 sz">Nor fields producing holy contributions,</p><p data-pid="10" class="p10 sz">Because there the shield of mighty ones was defiled,</p><p data-pid="10" class="p10 sz">The shield of Saul is no longer anointed with oil.</p>
<p id="p11" data-pid="11" class="p11 sl"><span id="page443" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="443" data-before-text="443"></span><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> From the blood of the slain, from the fat of mighty ones,</p><p data-pid="11" class="p11 sz">The bow of Jonʹa·than did not turn back,</p><p data-pid="11" class="p11 sz">And the sword of Saul would not return without success.</p>
<p id="p12" data-pid="12" class="p12 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Saul and Jonʹa·than, beloved and cherished<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> during their life,</p><p data-pid="12" class="p12 sz">And in death they were not separated.</p>
<p id="p13" data-pid="13" class="p13 sz">Swifter than the eagles they were,</p><p data-pid="13" class="p13 sz">Mightier than the lions.</p>
<p id="p14" data-pid="14" class="p14 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul,</p><p data-pid="14" class="p14 sz">Who clothed you in scarlet and finery,</p><p data-pid="14" class="p14 sz">Who put gold ornaments upon your clothing.</p>
<p id="p15" data-pid="15" class="p15 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> How the mighty have fallen in battle!</p>
<p id="p16" data-pid="16" class="p16 sz">Jonʹa·than lies slain upon your high places!</p>
<p id="p17" data-pid="17" class="p17 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I am distressed over you, my brother Jonʹa·than;</p><p data-pid="17" class="p17 sz">You were very dear to me.</p>
<p id="p18" data-pid="18" class="p18 sz">More wonderful was your love to me than the love of women.</p>
<p id="p19" data-pid="19" class="p19 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> How the mighty have fallen</p><p data-pid="19" class="p19 sz">And the weapons of war have perished!”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061114.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 1:1</span></a> Or “striking down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061114.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 1:9</span></a> Or “because all my soul is still in me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061114.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 1:10</span></a> Or “diadem.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p263" data-pid="263"><a href="1001061114.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 1:17</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p264" data-pid="264"><a href="1001061114.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 1:23</span></a> Or “pleasant.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
