<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061111"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_21.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p232" data-pid="232" class="p232 sb"><span id="pos96137"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21</strong> </span>Now the men of Israel had sworn this oath in Mizʹpah: “Not one of us will give his daughter to a man from Benjamin as a wife.” <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Consequently, the people came to Bethʹel and sat there before the true God until evening, crying out and weeping bitterly. <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And they were saying: “Why, O Jehovah the God of Israel, has this happened in Israel? Why should one tribe be missing today from Israel?” <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> And the next day the people got up early and built an altar there to offer up burnt offerings and communion offerings.</p>
<p id="p233" data-pid="233" class="p233 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Then the people of Israel said: “Who of all the tribes of Israel did not come up to assemble before Jehovah?” for they had taken a great oath that anyone who did not come up to Jehovah at Mizʹpah would be put to death without fail. <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So the people of Israel felt sorrow over what had happened to Benjamin their brother. They said: “Today one tribe has been chopped off from Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> What should we do to provide wives for those who are left, now that we have sworn by Jehovah not to give them any of our daughters as wives?”</p>
<p id="p234" data-pid="234" class="p234 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> They asked: “Who among the tribes of Israel did not come up to Jehovah at Mizʹpah?” It so happened that no one had come from Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad into the camp where the congregation was. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> When the people were counted, they saw that none of the inhabitants of Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad were there. <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So the assembly sent there 12,000 of the mightiest men. They commanded them: “Go and strike down the inhabitants of Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad with the sword, even the women and the children. <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> This is what you should do: Every male, as well as every woman who has had sexual relations with a male, you should devote to destruction.” <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Among the inhabitants of Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad, they found 400 girls who were virgins, who had never had sexual relations with a man. So they brought them to the camp at Shiʹloh, which is in the land of Caʹnaan.</p>
<p id="p235" data-pid="235" class="p235 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then all the assembly sent a message to the Benʹja·min·ites on the crag of Rimʹmon and offered them peace. <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So Benjamin came back at that time. They gave them the women whom they had kept alive from the women of Jaʹbesh-gilʹe·ad, but they did not find enough for them. <span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And the people felt sorrow over what had happened to Benjamin because Jehovah had made a division among the tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The elders of the assembly said: “What should we do to provide wives for the remaining men, since all the women were annihilated out of Benjamin?” <span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They replied: “There should be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, so that a tribe may not be wiped out of Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But we are not allowed to give them wives from our daughters, because the people <span id="page391" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="391" data-before-text="391"></span>of Israel have sworn: ‘Cursed is the one who gives a wife to Benjamin.’”</p>
<p id="p236" data-pid="236" class="p236 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then they said: “Look! There is a festival of Jehovah from year to year in Shiʹloh, which is north of Bethʹel and east of the highway that goes up from Bethʹel to Sheʹchem and south of Le·boʹnah.” <span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So they commanded the men of Benjamin: “Go and set an ambush in the vineyards. <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And when you see the young women<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> of Shiʹloh come out to join in their circle dances, each of you should come out from the vineyards and seize a wife from the young women of Shiʹloh, and you should return to the land of Benjamin. <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And should their fathers or their brothers come to make a complaint against us, we will then tell them, ‘Show us favor for their sakes, because we could not provide each one a wife by war and you could not give a wife to them without becoming guilty.’”</p>
<p id="p237" data-pid="237" class="p237 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So the men of Benjamin did just that, and they each carried off a wife from the women who were dancing. After that they went back to their inheritance and rebuilt their cities and settled in them.</p>
<p id="p238" data-pid="238" class="p238 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And the Israelites dispersed from there at that time, each one to his tribe and his family, and they departed from there, each one to his inheritance.</p>
<p id="p239" data-pid="239" class="p239 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> In those days there was no king in Israel. Each one was doing what was right in his own eyes.<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p id="p399" data-pid="399"><a href="1001061111-split21.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 21:21</span></a> Lit., “the daughters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p id="p400" data-pid="400"><a href="1001061111-split21.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 21:25</span></a> Or “what he thought was right.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
