<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Luke 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061146"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Luke</a>  <a href="biblechapternav42.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav42_17.xhtml">1 - 37</a></p>
<p id="p154" data-pid="154" class="p154 sb"><span id="pos99279"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>Then he said to his disciples: “It is unavoidable that causes for stumbling should come. Nevertheless, woe to the one through whom they come! <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> It would be more advantageous for him if a millstone were hung from his neck and he were thrown into the sea than for him to stumble one of these little ones. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Pay attention to yourselves. If your brother commits a sin, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Even if he sins seven times a day against you and he comes back to you seven times, saying, ‘I repent,’ you must forgive him.”</p>
<p id="p155" data-pid="155" class="p155 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Now the apostles said to the Lord: “Give us more faith.” <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then the Lord said: “If you had faith the size of a mustard grain, you would say to this black mulberry tree, ‘Be <span id="page1410" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1410" data-before-text="1410"></span>uprooted and planted in the sea!’ and it would obey you.</p>
<p id="p156" data-pid="156" class="p156 sb"><span id="pos100075"></span><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “Which one of you who has a slave plowing or shepherding would say to him when he comes in from the field, ‘Come here at once and dine at the table’? <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Rather, will he not say to him, ‘Get something ready for me to have my evening meal, and put on an apron and serve me until I finish eating and drinking, and afterward you can eat and drink’? <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He will not feel gratitude to the slave because he did what was assigned, will he? <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Likewise, when you have done all the things assigned to you, say: ‘We are good-for-nothing slaves. What we have done is what we ought to have done.’”</p>
<p id="p157" data-pid="157" class="p157 sb"><span id="pos100668"></span><span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> While he was going to Jerusalem, he was passing between Sa·marʹi·a and Galʹi·lee. <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And as he was entering a village, ten men with leprosy met him, but they stood at a distance. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> And they raised their voices and said: “Jesus, Instructor, have mercy on us!” <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> When he saw them, he said to them: “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” Then as they were going off, they were cleansed. <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> One of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And he fell facedown at Jesus’ feet, thanking him. Furthermore, he was a Sa·marʹi·tan. <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> In reply Jesus said: “All ten were cleansed, were they not? Where, then, are the other nine? <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Did no one else turn back to give glory to God except this man of another nation?” <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Then he said to him: “Get up and be on your way; your faith has made you well.”</p>
<p id="p158" data-pid="158" class="p158 sb"><span id="pos101549"></span><span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> On being asked by the Pharisees when the Kingdom of God was coming, he answered them: “The Kingdom of God is not coming with striking observableness; <span id="pos101707"></span><span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> nor will people say, ‘See here!’ or, ‘There!’ For look! the Kingdom of God is in your midst.”<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a></p>
<p id="p159" data-pid="159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then he said to the disciples: “Days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, but you will not see it. <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And people will say to you, ‘See there!’ or, ‘See here!’ Do not go out or chase after them. <span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> For just as lightning flashes from one part of heaven to another part of heaven, so the Son of man will be in his day. <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> First, however, he must undergo many sufferings and be rejected by this generation. <span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Moreover, just as it occurred in the days of Noah, so it will be in the days of the Son of man: <span id="chapter17_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> they were eating, they were drinking, men were marrying, women were being given in marriage until that day when Noah entered into the ark, and the Flood came and destroyed them all. <span id="chapter17_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Likewise, just as it occurred in the days of Lot: they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building. <span id="chapter17_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> But on the day that Lot went out of Sodʹom, it rained fire and sulfur from heaven and destroyed them all. <span id="chapter17_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> It will be the same on that day when the Son of man is revealed.</p>
<p id="p160" data-pid="160" class="p160 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “On that day let the person who is on the housetop but whose belongings are in the house not come down to pick these up, and likewise, the person out in the field must not return to the things behind. <span id="pos103132"></span><span id="chapter17_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Remember the wife of Lot. <span id="chapter17_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> Whoever seeks to keep his life<span id="footnotesource169"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote169">*</a> safe will lose it, but whoever <span id="page1411" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1411" data-before-text="1411"></span>loses it will preserve it alive. <span id="chapter17_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> I tell you, in that night two people will be in one bed; the one will be taken along, but the other will be abandoned. <span id="chapter17_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> There will be two women grinding at the same mill; the one will be taken along, but the other will be abandoned.” <span id="chapter17_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource170"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote170">*</a> —— <span id="chapter17_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> So in response they said to him: “Where, Lord?” He said to them: “Where the body is, there also the eagles will be gathered together.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p id="p393" data-pid="393"><a href="1001061146-split17.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 17:21</span></a> Or “is among you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote169"><p id="p394" data-pid="394"><a href="1001061146-split17.xhtml#footnotesource169">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 17:33</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote170"><p id="p395" data-pid="395"><a href="1001061146-split17.xhtml#footnotesource170">^ <span class="footnoteref">Luke 17:36</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
