<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_17.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p180" data-pid="180" class="p180 sb"><span id="pos88629"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>Jehovah now said to Moses: <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and take from them one rod for each paternal house, from the chieftains of each paternal house, 12 rods in all. Write the name of each one on his rod. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> You should write Aaron’s name on Leʹvi’s rod, because there is one rod for the head of each paternal house. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Deposit the rods in the tent of meeting before the Testimony, where I regularly present myself to you. <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And the rod of the man whom I choose will bud, and I will put a stop to the murmuring of the Israelites against me, which they are also murmuring against you.”</p>
<p id="p181" data-pid="181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So Moses spoke to the Israelites, and all their chieftains gave him rods—a rod for each chieftain of a paternal house, 12 rods—and Aaron’s rod was among their rods. <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Moses deposited the rods before Jehovah in the tent of the Testimony.</p>
<p id="p182" data-pid="182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> On the next day, when Moses went into the tent of the Testimony, look! Aaron’s rod for the house of Leʹvi had budded and was bringing forth buds and blossoming flowers and bearing ripe almonds. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Moses then brought out all the rods from before Jehovah to all the people of Israel. They looked at them, and each man took his own rod.</p>
<p id="p183" data-pid="183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Jehovah then said to Moses: “Put Aaron’s rod back before the Testimony as something to be kept for a sign to the sons of rebelliousness, so that their murmurings against me may cease and so that they may not die.” <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Moses immediately did just as Jehovah had commanded him. He did just so.</p>
<p id="p184" data-pid="184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The Israelites then said to Moses: “Now we will die, we will surely perish, we are all going to perish! <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Anyone who even comes close to Jehovah’s tabernacle will die! Must we end up dying that way?”</p>
</body>
</html>
