<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_33.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p302" data-pid="302" class="p302 sb"><span id="pos138574"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33</strong> </span>Jehovah said further to Moses: “Go on your way from here with the people whom you led up out of the land of Egypt. Journey to the land about which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, ‘To your offspring<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> I will give it.’ <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> I will send an angel ahead of you and drive out the Caʹnaan·ites, the Amʹor·ites, the Hitʹtites, the Perʹiz·zites, the Hiʹvites, and the Jebʹu·sites. <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go in the midst of you, for you are an obstinate<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> people, and I might exterminate you on the way.”</p>
<p id="p303" data-pid="303" class="p303 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> When the people heard this harsh word, they began to mourn, and not one of them put on his ornaments. <span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah said to Moses: “Say to the Israelites, ‘You are an obstinate<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> people. In one moment I could go through the midst of you and exterminate you. So now keep your ornaments off while I consider what to do to you.’” <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> So from Mount Horʹeb onward, the Israelites refrained from wearing<span id="footnotesource222"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote222">*</a> their ornaments.</p>
<p id="p304" data-pid="304" class="p304 sb"><span id="pos139548"></span><span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now Moses took his tent and pitched it outside the camp, at some distance from the camp, and he called it a tent of meeting. Everyone inquiring of Jehovah would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp. <span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> As soon as Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise and stand at the entrance of their own tents, and they would gaze after Moses until he entered into the tent. <span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> As soon as Moses would go into the tent, the pillar of cloud would come down and stand at the entrance of the tent while God spoke with Moses. <span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent, each of them rose and bowed down at the entrance of his own tent. <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jehovah spoke to Moses face-to-face, just as one man would speak to another man. When he returned to the camp, Joshua the son of Nun, his minister and attendant, would not depart from the tent.</p>
<p id="p305" data-pid="305" class="p305 sb"><span id="pos140460"></span><span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Now Moses said to Jehovah: “See, you are saying to me, ‘Lead this people up,’ but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Moreover, you have said, ‘I know you by name,<span id="footnotesource223"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote223">*</a> and you have also found favor in my eyes.’ <span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Please, if I have found favor in your eyes, make me know your ways, so that I may know you and continue to find favor in your eyes. Consider, too, that this nation is your people.” <span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> So he said: “I myself<span id="footnotesource224"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote224">*</a> <span id="page159" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="159" data-before-text="159"></span>will go with you, and I will give you rest.” <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Then Moses said to him: “If you yourself are<span id="footnotesource225"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote225">*</a> not going along, do not lead us up from here. <span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> How will it be known that I have found favor in your eyes, I and your people? Is it not by your going along with us, so that I and your people will be distinguished from every other people on the face of the earth?”</p>
<p id="p306" data-pid="306" class="p306 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Jehovah went on to say to Moses: “I will also do this thing that you request, because you have found favor in my eyes and I know you by name.” <span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Then he said: “Please show me your glory.” <span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But he said: “I will make all my goodness pass before your face, and I will declare before you the name of Jehovah; and I will favor the one whom I favor, and I will show mercy to the one to whom I show mercy.” <span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But he added: “You cannot see my face, for no man can see me and live.”</p>
<p id="p307" data-pid="307" class="p307 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jehovah said further: “Here is a place near me. Station yourself on the rock. <span id="chapter33_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> When my glory is passing by, I will place you in a crevice of the rock, and I will shield you with my hand until I have passed by. <span id="chapter33_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After that I will take my hand away, and you will see my back. But my face may not be seen.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p id="p598" data-pid="598"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:1</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p id="p599" data-pid="599"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:3</span></a> Lit., “stiff-necked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p id="p600" data-pid="600"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:5</span></a> Lit., “stiff-necked.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote222"><p id="p601" data-pid="601"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource222">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:6</span></a> Lit., “stripped off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote223"><p id="p602" data-pid="602"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource223">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:12</span></a> Or “I have chosen you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote224"><p id="p603" data-pid="603"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource224">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:14</span></a> Lit., “My face.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote225"><p id="p604" data-pid="604"><a href="1001061106-split33.xhtml#footnotesource225">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 33:15</span></a> Lit., “If your face is.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
