<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acts 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061148"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Acts</a>  <a href="biblechapternav44.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav44_11.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="pos52407"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11</strong> </span>Now the apostles and the brothers who were in Ju·deʹa heard that people of the nations had also accepted the word of God. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So when Peter came up to Jerusalem, the supporters of circumcision began to criticize<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> him, <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> saying: “You went into the house of men who were not circumcised and ate with them.” <span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> At this Peter went on to explain the matter in detail to them, saying:</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “I was in the city of Jopʹpa praying, and while in a trance I saw a vision, something<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> descending like a great linen sheet being let down by its four corners from heaven, and it came right down to me. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Looking closely into it, I observed four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, reptiles,<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> and birds of heaven. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> I also heard a voice say to me: ‘Get up, Peter, slaughter and eat!’ <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But I said: ‘Certainly not, Lord, because a defiled or unclean thing has never entered my mouth.’ <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> The second time, the voice from heaven answered: ‘You stop calling defiled the things God has cleansed.’ <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> This happened a third time, and everything was pulled up again into heaven. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Also just at that moment, three men were standing at the house where we were staying, having been sent to me from Caes·a·reʹa. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Then the spirit told me to go with them, not doubting at all. But these six brothers also went with me, and we entered into the house of the man.</p>
<p id="p75" data-pid="75" class="p75 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> “He reported to us how he saw the angel stand in his house and say: ‘Send men to Jopʹpa and summon Simon who is called Peter, <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and he will tell you things by which you and all your household may get saved.’ <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But when I started to speak, the holy spirit fell on them just as it did also on us in the beginning. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At this I recalled the saying of the Lord, how he used to say: ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with holy spirit.’ <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If, therefore, God gave the same free gift to them that he gave to us who <span id="page1478" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1478" data-before-text="1478"></span>have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I should be able to hinder God?”<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a></p>
<p id="p76" data-pid="76" class="p76 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> When they heard these things, they stopped objecting,<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> and they glorified God, saying: “So, then, God has also granted to people of the nations repentance leading to life.”</p>
<p id="p77" data-pid="77" class="p77 sb"><span id="pos54602"></span><span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Now those who had been scattered by the tribulation that arose over Stephen went as far as Phoe·niʹcia, Cyʹprus, and Antioch, but they spoke the word only to the Jews. <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> However, some of the men among them from Cyʹprus and Cy·reʹne came to Antioch and began talking to the Greek-speaking people, declaring the good news of the Lord Jesus. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Furthermore, the hand of Jehovah<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> was with them, and a great number became believers and turned to the Lord.</p>
<p id="p78" data-pid="78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> The report about them reached the ears of the congregation in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barʹna·bas as far as Antioch. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> When he arrived and saw the undeserved kindness of God, he rejoiced and began to encourage them all to continue in the Lord with heartfelt resolve; <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> for he was a good man and full of holy spirit and faith. And a considerable crowd was added to the Lord. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> So he went to Tarsus to make a thorough search for Saul. <span id="pos55535"></span><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> After he found him, he brought him to Antioch. So for a whole year they assembled with them in the congregation and taught quite a crowd, and it was first in Antioch that the disciples were by divine providence called Christians.</p>
<p id="p79" data-pid="79" class="p79 sb"><span id="pos55772"></span><span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> In those days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> One of them named Agʹa·bus stood up and foretold through the spirit that a great famine was about to come on the entire inhabited earth, which, in fact, did take place in the time of Claudius. <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> So the disciples determined, each according to what he could afford, to send relief<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> to the brothers living in Ju·deʹa; <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> and this they did, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barʹna·bas and Saul.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p315" data-pid="315"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:2</span></a> Or “contend with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p316" data-pid="316"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:5</span></a> Lit., “some sort of vessel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p317" data-pid="317"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:6</span></a> Or “creeping things.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p318" data-pid="318"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:17</span></a> Or “stand in God’s way?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p id="p319" data-pid="319"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:18</span></a> Lit., “they became silent.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p id="p320" data-pid="320"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p id="p321" data-pid="321"><a href="1001061148-split11.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Acts 11:29</span></a> Or “a relief ministration.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
