<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061115"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_7.xhtml">1 - 51</a></p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos33567"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>And it took Solʹo·mon 13 years to build his own house,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> until his whole house was completed.</p>
<p id="p56" data-pid="56" class="p56 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And he built the House of the Forest of Lebʹa·non 100 cubits<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> long, 50 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high on four rows of cedar pillars; and there were cedar beams on the pillars. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> It was paneled above with cedar on the girders that rested on the pillars; they numbered 45, with <span id="page491" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="491" data-before-text="491"></span>15 to a row. <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> There were three rows of framed windows, and each window was opposite another window in three tiers. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> All the entrances and the doorposts had square<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> frames, as did the front of the windows that were opposite each other in three tiers.</p>
<p id="p57" data-pid="57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> And he built the Hall<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> of Pillars 50 cubits long and 30 cubits wide, and there was a porch in front of it with pillars and a canopy.</p>
<p id="p58" data-pid="58" class="p58 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> He also built the Hall<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> of the Throne, where he would judge—the Hall of Judgment—and they paneled it with cedar from the floor to the rafters.</p>
<p id="p59" data-pid="59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> The house<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> where he was to live, at the other courtyard, was set back from the Hall,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> and it was similar in workmanship. He also built a house similar to this Hall for Pharʹaoh’s daughter, whom Solʹo·mon had taken as a wife.</p>
<p id="p60" data-pid="60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> All of these were made of expensive stones hewn according to measure, trimmed with stonesaws inside and out, from the foundation up to the coping, and outside as far as the great courtyard. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the foundation was laid with very large, expensive stones; some stones measured ten cubits, and other stones, eight cubits. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And above these were expensive stones, hewn according to measure, as well as cedar. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Around the great courtyard were three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams, like that for the inner courtyard of the house of Jehovah and the porch of the house.</p>
<p id="p61" data-pid="61" class="p61 sb"><span id="pos35326"></span><span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon sent for Hiʹram and brought him from Tyre. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He was the son of a widow from the tribe of Naphʹta·li, and his father was a Tyrʹi·an coppersmith; and he had great skill, understanding, and experience for all kinds of work in copper.<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> So he came to King Solʹo·mon and did all his work.</p>
<p id="p62" data-pid="62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos35639"></span><span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He cast the two pillars of copper; each pillar was 18 cubits high, and it took a measuring cord 12 cubits long to encircle each of the two pillars.<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And he made two capitals cast in copper to put on the tops of the pillars. One capital was five cubits high, and the other capital was five cubits high. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The capital on top of each pillar had mesh network with wreathed chains; seven for the one capital and seven for the other capital. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And he made pomegranates in two rows around the one network to cover the capitals that were on the top of the pillars; he did the same for both capitals. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The capitals on top of the pillars at the porch were of a lily pattern four cubits high. <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The capitals were on the two pillars, just above the rounded portion adjoining the network; and there were 200 pomegranates in rows all around on each capital.</p>
<p id="p63" data-pid="63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> He set up the pillars of the porch of the temple.<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> He set up the right-hand<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> pillar and named it Jaʹchin,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> and then he set up the left-hand<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> pillar and named it Boʹaz.<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> And the top of the pillars were of a lily pattern. So the work of the pillars was completed.</p>
<p id="p64" data-pid="64" class="p64 sb"><span id="page492" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="492" data-before-text="492"></span><span id="pos36798"></span><span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Then he made the Sea<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> of cast metal. It was circular in shape, 10 cubits from brim to brim and 5 cubits high, and it took a measuring line 30 cubits long to encircle it.<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And there were ornamental gourds below its brim, completely encircling it, ten to a cubit all around the Sea, with two rows of the gourds cast in one piece with it. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It stood on 12 bulls, 3 facing north, 3 facing west, 3 facing south, and 3 facing east; and the Sea rested on them, and all their hindquarters were toward the center. <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And its thickness was a handbreadth;<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom. It would hold 2,000 bath measures.<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a></p>
<p id="p65" data-pid="65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos37478"></span><span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Then he made the ten carriages<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> of copper. Each carriage was four cubits long, four cubits wide, and three cubits high. <span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> And this was how the carriages were constructed: They had side panels, and the side panels were between the crossbars. <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And on the side panels between the crossbars were lions, bulls, and cherubs, and the same design was on the crossbars. Above and beneath the lions and the bulls were wreaths in relief. <span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And each carriage had four copper wheels and copper axles, and its four cornerpieces served as supports for them. Beneath the basin were the supports, cast with wreaths at the side of each. <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Its opening was inside the crown, extending upward one cubit; and its opening was round, making up a stand of one and a half cubits, and on its mouth were engravings. And their side panels were square, not round. <span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> The four wheels were below the side panels, and the supports of the wheels were attached to the carriage, and the height of each wheel was one and a half cubits. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And the wheels were made like chariot wheels. Their supports, rims,<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> spokes, and hubs were all of cast metal. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> There were four supports on the four corners of each carriage; its supports were cast as part of<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> the carriage. <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> On top of the carriage was a circular band half a cubit high, and on the top of the carriage, its framing pieces and its side panels were cast as part of<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> it. <span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> On the surfaces of its framing pieces and on its side panels he engraved cherubs, lions, and palm trees according to the amount of space on each, with wreaths all around. <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> This is how he made the ten carriages; they were all cast alike, with the same measure and shape.</p>
<p id="p66" data-pid="66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> He made ten copper basins; each could hold 40 bath measures. Each basin measured four cubits.<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> There was one basin for each of the ten carriages. <span id="chapter7_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Then he put five carriages on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house, and he placed the Sea on the right side of the house, toward the southeast.</p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> Hiʹram also made the basins, the shovels, and the bowls.</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb">So Hiʹram finished all the work that he did for King Solʹo·mon on the house of Jehovah: <span id="chapter7_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> the two pillars and the bowl-shaped capitals that were on top of the two pillars; the two networks to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on top <span id="page493" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="493" data-before-text="493"></span>of the pillars; <span id="chapter7_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> the 400 pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals that were on the two pillars; <span id="chapter7_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> the ten carriages and the ten basins on the carriages; <span id="chapter7_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> the Sea and the 12 bulls beneath the Sea; <span id="chapter7_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> and the cans, the shovels, the bowls, and all the utensils, which Hiʹram made of polished copper for King Solʹo·mon for the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> The king cast them in clay molds in the district of the Jordan, between Sucʹcoth and Zarʹe·than.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon left all the utensils unweighed because they were in such great quantities. The weight of the copper was not ascertained. <span id="pos40541"></span><span id="chapter7_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> Solʹo·mon made all the utensils for the house of Jehovah: the altar of gold; the gold table on which to put the showbread; <span id="chapter7_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> the lampstands of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left before the innermost room; and the blossoms, the lamps, and the snuffers,<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> of gold; <span id="chapter7_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> the basins, the extinguishers, the bowls, the cups, and the fire holders, of pure gold; and the sockets for the doors of the inner house, that is, the Most Holy, and for the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> So King Solʹo·mon completed all the work he had to do for the house of Jehovah. Solʹo·mon then brought in the things that David his father had made holy, and he put the silver, the gold, and the articles into the treasuries of the house of Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p290" data-pid="290"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p291" data-pid="291"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:2</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p id="p292" data-pid="292"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:5</span></a> Or “four-sided; rectangular.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p id="p293" data-pid="293"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:6</span></a> Or “Porch.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p id="p294" data-pid="294"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:7</span></a> Or “Porch.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p id="p295" data-pid="295"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:8</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p id="p296" data-pid="296"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:8</span></a> Lit., “house of the Hall.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p id="p297" data-pid="297"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:14</span></a> Or “bronze,” here and in subsequent occurrences in this chapter.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p id="p298" data-pid="298"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:15</span></a> Or “each of the two pillars was 12 cubits in circumference.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p id="p299" data-pid="299"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:21</span></a> Here referring to the Holy.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p id="p300" data-pid="300"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:21</span></a> Or “southern.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p301" data-pid="301"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:21</span></a> Meaning “May He [that is, Jehovah] Firmly Establish.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p302" data-pid="302"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:21</span></a> Or “northern.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p303" data-pid="303"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:21</span></a> Possibly meaning “In Strength.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p304" data-pid="304"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:23</span></a> Or “reservoir.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p305" data-pid="305"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:23</span></a> Or “it was 30 cubits in circumference.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p306" data-pid="306"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:26</span></a> About 7.4 cm (2.9 in.). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p307" data-pid="307"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:26</span></a> A bath equaled 22 L (5.81 gal). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p308" data-pid="308"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:27</span></a> Or “water carts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p id="p309" data-pid="309"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:33</span></a> Or “fellies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p id="p310" data-pid="310"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:34</span></a> Or “were one piece with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p id="p311" data-pid="311"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:35</span></a> Or “were one piece with.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p id="p312" data-pid="312"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:38</span></a> Or “four cubits in diameter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p id="p313" data-pid="313"><a href="1001061115-split7.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 7:49</span></a> Or “tongs.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
