<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_18.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos65078"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18</strong> </span>And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “What does this proverb that you quote in the land of Israel mean, ‘Fathers have eaten sour grapes, but the teeth of the sons are set on edge’?</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “‘As surely as I am alive,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘you will not continue to quote this saying in Israel. <span id="pos65406"></span><span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Look! All the souls<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a>—to me they belong. As the soul of the father so also the soul of the son—to me they belong. The soul<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> who sins is the one who will die.</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> “‘Suppose that a man is righteous and does what is just and right. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> He does not eat idolatrous sacrifices on the mountains; he does not look up to the disgusting idols<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> of the house of Israel; he does not defile his neighbor’s wife or have relations with a woman who is menstruating; <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> he does not mistreat anyone, but he returns what a debtor has given him in pledge; he does not rob anyone, but he gives his own food to the hungry one and covers the naked one with a garment; <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> he does not charge interest or engage in usury, but he refrains from acting with injustice; he executes true justice between one man and another; <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and he keeps walking in my statutes and observing my judicial decisions in order to act in faithfulness. Such a man is righteous and will surely keep living,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “‘But suppose that he has become father to a son who is a robber or a murderer<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> or who <span id="page1155" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1155" data-before-text="1155"></span>does any of these other things <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> (though the father has not done any of these things)—he eats idolatrous sacrifices on the mountains, defiles his neighbor’s wife, <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> mistreats the needy and the poor, takes things by robbery, does not return a pledge, looks up to the disgusting idols, engages in detestable practices, <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> engages in usury and charges interest—then the son will not keep living. Because of all these detestable things that he has done, he will surely be put to death. His own blood will be upon him.</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘But suppose that a father has a son who sees all the sins his father has committed, and though he sees them, he does not do such things. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> He does not eat idolatrous sacrifices on the mountains; he does not look up to the disgusting idols of the house of Israel; he does not defile his neighbor’s wife; <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> he does not mistreat anyone; he does not seize what was pledged; he does not take anything in robbery; he gives his own food to the hungry one and covers the naked one with a garment; <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> he refrains from oppressing the poor; he does not engage in usury or charge interest; and he carries out my judicial decisions and walks in my statutes. Such a man will not die because of the error of his father. He will surely keep living. <span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> But because his father practiced fraud, robbed his brother, and did what was wrong among his people, he will die for his error.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos67934"></span><span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> “‘But you will say: “Why does the son not bear guilt because of his father’s error?” Since the son has done what is just and righteous, has kept all my statutes and has observed them, he will surely keep living. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The soul<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> who sins is the one who will die. A son will bear no guilt because of the error of his father, and a father will bear no guilt because of the error of his son. The righteousness of the righteous one will be accounted to him alone, and the wickedness of the wicked one will be accounted to him alone.</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> “‘Now if someone wicked turns away from all the sins he has committed and keeps my statutes and does what is just and righteous, he will surely keep living. He will not die. <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> None of the transgressions that he has committed will be held<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> against him. He will keep living for doing what is righteous.’</p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="pos68790"></span><span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> “‘Do I take any pleasure at all in the death of a wicked person?’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. ‘Do I not prefer that he turn away from his ways and keep living?’</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “‘But when someone righteous abandons his righteousness and does what is wrong,<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> doing all the detestable things the wicked do, will he live? None of the righteous acts that he did will be remembered. For his unfaithfulness and the sin he has committed, he will die.</p>
<p id="p140" data-pid="140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “‘But you will say: “The way of Jehovah is unjust.” Please listen, O house of Israel! Is it my way that is unjust? Is it not your ways that are unjust?</p>
<p id="p141" data-pid="141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘When someone righteous abandons his righteousness and does what is wrong and dies because of it, he will die for his own wrongdoing.</p>
<p id="p142" data-pid="142" class="p142 sb"><span id="pos69549"></span><span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> “‘And when someone wicked turns away from the wickedness that he has committed and begins to do what is just and <span id="page1156" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1156" data-before-text="1156"></span>righteous, he will preserve his own life.<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> When he realizes and turns away from all the transgressions that he has committed, he will surely keep living. He will not die.</p>
<p id="p143" data-pid="143" class="p143 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> “‘But the house of Israel will say: “The way of Jehovah is unjust.” Is it really my ways that are unjust, O house of Israel? Is it not your ways that are unjust?’</p>
<p id="p144" data-pid="144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “‘Therefore, I will judge each one of you according to his ways, O house of Israel,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. ‘Turn away, yes, turn completely away from all your transgressions, so that they will not be a stumbling block bringing guilt upon you. <span id="chapter18_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Rid yourselves of all the transgressions you have committed and acquire<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> a new heart and a new spirit, for why should you die, O house of Israel?’</p>
<p id="p145" data-pid="145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> “‘I do not take any pleasure in the death of anyone,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. ‘So turn back and live.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p id="p708" data-pid="708"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:4</span></a> Or “lives.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p id="p709" data-pid="709"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:4</span></a> Or “person.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p id="p710" data-pid="710"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:6</span></a> The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p id="p711" data-pid="711"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:10</span></a> Lit., “shedder of blood.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p id="p712" data-pid="712"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:20</span></a> Or “person.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p713" data-pid="713"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:22</span></a> Lit., “remembered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p714" data-pid="714"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:24</span></a> Or “does injustice.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p id="p715" data-pid="715"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:27</span></a> Or “soul.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos105542">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p id="p716" data-pid="716"><a href="1001061130-split18.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 18:31</span></a> Lit., “make for yourselves.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
