<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_19.xhtml">1 - 42</a></p>
<p id="p131" data-pid="131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos93518"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19</strong> </span>Pilate then took Jesus and scourged him. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And the soldiers braided a crown of thorns and put it on his head and clothed him with a purple robe, <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> and they kept coming up to him and saying: “Greetings,<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> you King of the Jews!” They also kept slapping him in the face. <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Pilate went outside again and said to them: “See! I bring him outside to you in order for you to know that I find no fault in him.” <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So Jesus came outside, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them: “Look! The man!” <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they shouted: “To the stake with him! To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> Pilate said to them: “Take him yourselves and execute him,<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> for I do not find any fault in him.” <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> The Jews answered him: “We have a law, and according to the law he ought to die, because he made himself God’s son.”</p>
<p id="p132" data-pid="132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos94395"></span><span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> When Pilate heard what they were saying, he became even more fearful, <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> and he entered the governor’s residence again and said to Jesus: “Where are you from?” But Jesus gave him no answer. <span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> So Pilate said to him: “Are you refusing to speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and I have authority to execute you?”<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Jesus answered him: “You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been granted to you from above. This is why the man who handed me over to you has greater sin.”</p>
<p id="p133" data-pid="133" class="p133 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> For this reason Pilate kept trying to find a way to release him, but the Jews shouted: “If <span id="page1455" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1455" data-before-text="1455"></span>you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar. Everyone who makes himself a king speaks against<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> Caesar.” <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then Pilate, after hearing these words, brought Jesus outside, and he sat down on a judgment seat in a place called the Stone Pavement, but in Hebrew, <em>Gabʹba·tha</em>. <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover; it was about the sixth hour.<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> And he said to the Jews: “See! Your king!” <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> However, they shouted: “Take him away! Take him away! To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> Pilate said to them: “Shall I execute your king?” The chief priests answered: “We have no king but Caesar.” <span id="pos95650"></span><span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> Then he handed him over to them to be executed on the stake.</p>
<p id="p134" data-pid="134" class="p134 sb">So they took charge of Jesus. <span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Bearing the torture stake<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> for himself, he went out to the so-called Skull Place, which is called <em>Golʹgo·tha</em> in Hebrew. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> There they nailed him to the stake alongside two other men, one on each side, with Jesus in the middle. <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Pilate also wrote a title and put it on the torture stake.<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> It was written: “Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ the King of the Jews.” <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was nailed to the stake was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek. <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> However, the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: “Do not write, ‘The King of the Jews,’ but that he said, ‘I am King of the Jews.’” <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Pilate answered: “What I have written, I have written.”</p>
<p id="p135" data-pid="135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Now when the soldiers had nailed Jesus to the stake, they took his outer garments and divided them into four parts, one for each soldier, and they also took the inner garment. But the inner garment was without a seam, being woven from top to bottom. <span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So they said to one another: “Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots over it to decide whose it will be.” This was to fulfill the scripture: “They divided my garments among themselves, and they cast lots for my clothing.” So the soldiers actually did these things.</p>
<p id="p136" data-pid="136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos97039"></span><span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> By the torture stake<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> of Jesus, however, there were standing his mother and his mother’s sister; Mary the wife of Cloʹpas and Mary Magʹda·lene. <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> So when Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother: “Woman, see! Your son!” <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Next he said to the disciple: “See! Your mother!” And from that hour on, the disciple took her into his own home.</p>
<p id="p137" data-pid="137" class="p137 sb"><span id="pos97445"></span><span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> After this, when Jesus knew that by now all things had been accomplished, in order to fulfill the scripture he said: “I am thirsty.” <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> A jar was sitting there full of sour wine. So they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> stalk and held it up to his mouth. <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> When he had received the sour wine, Jesus said: “It has been accomplished!” and bowing his head, he gave up his spirit.<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a></p>
<p id="p138" data-pid="138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Since it was the day of Preparation, so that the bodies would not remain on the torture stakes on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath day was a great one), the Jews asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken away. <span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man and those of the other man who was on a stake alongside <span id="page1456" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1456" data-before-text="1456"></span>him. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But on coming to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead, so they did not break his legs. <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> But one of the soldiers jabbed his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And the one who has seen it has given this witness, and his witness is true, and he knows that what he says is true, so that you also may believe. <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> In fact, these things took place for the scripture to be fulfilled: “Not a bone of his will be broken.”<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> And again, a different scripture says: “They will look to the one whom they pierced.”</p>
<p id="p139" data-pid="139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos98781"></span><span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> Now after these things, Joseph of Ar·i·ma·theʹa, who was a disciple of Jesus but a secret one because of his fear of the Jews, asked Pilate if he could take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took the body away. <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Nic·o·deʹmus, the man who had come to him in the night the first time, also came, bringing a mixture<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> of myrrh and aloes weighing about a hundred pounds.<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> <span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> So they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, according to the burial custom of the Jews. <span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> Incidentally, there was a garden at the place where he was executed,<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> and in the garden was a new tomb<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> in which no one had ever yet been laid. <span id="chapter19_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Because it was the day of Preparation of the Jews and the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p id="p246" data-pid="246"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:3</span></a> Or “Hail.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p id="p247" data-pid="247"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:6</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake! Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p id="p248" data-pid="248"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:6</span></a> Or “execute him on the stake.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p id="p249" data-pid="249"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:10</span></a> Or “execute you on the stake?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p id="p250" data-pid="250"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:12</span></a> Or “opposes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p id="p251" data-pid="251"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:14</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p id="p252" data-pid="252"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:15</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p id="p253" data-pid="253"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:17</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p id="p254" data-pid="254"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:19</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p255" data-pid="255"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:25</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos119067">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p256" data-pid="256"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:29</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos49263">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p257" data-pid="257"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:30</span></a> Or “he expired.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p258" data-pid="258"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:36</span></a> Or “crushed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p259" data-pid="259"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:39</span></a> Or possibly, “a roll.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p260" data-pid="260"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:39</span></a> That is, Roman pounds. See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p261" data-pid="261"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:41</span></a> Or “executed on the stake.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p262" data-pid="262"><a href="1001061147-split19.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 19:41</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
