<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_7.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p39" data-pid="39" class="p39 sb"><span id="pos22120"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7</strong> </span>Now as soon as Solʹo·mon had finished praying, fire came down from the heavens and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and Jehovah’s glory filled the house. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> The priests were unable to enter the house of Jehovah because Jehovah’s glory had filled the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> And all the people of Israel were looking on when the fire came down and the glory of Jehovah was upon the house, and they bowed low with their faces to the ground on the pavement and prostrated themselves and thanked Jehovah, “for he is good; his loyal love endures forever.”</p>
<p id="p40" data-pid="40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos22685"></span><span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now the king and all the people offered sacrifices before Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> King Solʹo·mon offered the sacrifice of 22,000 cattle and 120,000 sheep. Thus the king and all the people inaugurated the house of the true God. <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> The priests were standing at their posts of duty, as were the Levites who had the instruments used to accompany the song to Jehovah. (King David had made <span id="page614" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="614" data-before-text="614"></span>these instruments for giving thanks to Jehovah—“for his loyal love endures forever”—when David would offer praise with them.<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a>) And the priests were loudly sounding the trumpets in front of them, while all the Israelites were standing.</p>
<p id="p41" data-pid="41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then Solʹo·mon sanctified the middle of the courtyard that was before the house of Jehovah, for there he had to offer up the burnt offerings and the fat pieces of the communion sacrifices, because the copper altar that Solʹo·mon had made could not contain the burnt sacrifices, the grain offerings, and the fat pieces. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> At that time Solʹo·mon held the festival for seven days together with all Israel, a very great congregation from Leʹbo-haʹmath<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> down to the Wadi<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> of Egypt. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> But on the eighth day<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a> they held a solemn assembly, because they had held the inauguration of the altar for seven days and the festival for seven days. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Then on the 23rd day of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their homes rejoicing and feeling glad of heart over the goodness that Jehovah had shown to David and Solʹo·mon and Israel his people.</p>
<p id="p42" data-pid="42" class="p42 sb"><span id="pos24155"></span><span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Thus Solʹo·mon finished the house of Jehovah and the house<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> of the king; and everything that came into Solʹo·mon’s heart to do regarding the house of Jehovah and his own house he accomplished successfully. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Jehovah then appeared to Solʹo·mon during the night and said to him: “I have heard your prayer, and I have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> When I shut up the heavens and there is no rain and when I command the grasshoppers to devour the land and if I send a pestilence among my people, <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> if my people on whom my name has been called humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn away from their evil ways, then I will hear from the heavens and forgive their sin and heal their land. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Now my eyes will be open and my ears attentive to prayer at this place. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And now I have chosen and sanctified this house so that my name may be there permanently, and my eyes and my heart will always be there.</p>
<p id="p43" data-pid="43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “And you, if you walk before me as your father David walked by doing everything I have commanded you, and you obey my regulations and my judgments, <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> then I will establish the throne of your kingship, just as I made a covenant with your father David, saying, ‘There will never fail to be a man of your line ruling over Israel.’ <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have put before you and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them, <span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> I will uproot Israel from my land that I have given them, and this house that I have sanctified for my name I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it an object of scorn<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a> and a cause for ridicule among all the peoples. <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And this house will become heaps of ruins. Everyone passing by it will stare in amazement and will say, ‘Why did Jehovah do that to this land and this house?’ <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Then they will say, ‘It was because they abandoned Jehovah the God of their forefathers, who had brought them out of the land <span id="page615" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="615" data-before-text="615"></span>of Egypt, and they embraced other gods and bowed down to them and served them. That is why he brought all this calamity on them.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p id="p279" data-pid="279"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:6</span></a> Possibly referring to the Levites.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p id="p280" data-pid="280"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:8</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p id="p281" data-pid="281"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:8</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p id="p282" data-pid="282"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:9</span></a> The day after the festival, or the 15th day.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p id="p283" data-pid="283"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:11</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p id="p284" data-pid="284"><a href="1001061118-split7.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 7:20</span></a> Lit., “a proverb.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
