<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>John 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061147"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">John</a>  <a href="biblechapternav43.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav43_17.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos84427"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>Jesus spoke these things, and raising his eyes to heaven, he said: “Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son so that your son may glorify you, <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> just as you have given him authority over all flesh,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> so that he may give everlasting life to all those whom you have given to him. <span id="pos84717"></span><span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> This means everlasting life, their coming to know you,<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> the only true God, and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> I have glorified you on the earth, having finished the work you have given me to do. <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> So now, Father, glorify me at your side with the glory that I had alongside you before the world was.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> “I have made your name manifest<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have observed<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> your word. <span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Now they have come to know that all the things you gave me are from you; <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> because I have given them the sayings that you gave me, and they have accepted them and have certainly come to know that I came as your representative, and they have believed that you sent me. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I make request concerning them; I make request, not concerning the world, but concerning those whom you <span id="page1452" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1452" data-before-text="1452"></span>have given me, because they are yours; <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> and all my things are yours and yours are mine, and I have been glorified among them.</p>
<p id="p118" data-pid="118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> “I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, watch over them on account of your own name, which you have given me, so that they may be one<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a> just as we are one.<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> <span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> When I was with them, I used to watch over them on account of your own name, which you have given me; and I have protected them, and not one of them is destroyed except the son of destruction, so that the scripture might be fulfilled. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But now I am coming to you, and I am saying these things in the world, so that they may have my joy made complete in themselves. <span id="pos86321"></span><span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> I have given your word to them, but the world has hated them, because they are no part of the world, just as I am no part of the world.</p>
<p id="p119" data-pid="119" class="p119 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “I do not request that you take them out of the world, but that you watch over them because of the wicked one. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> They are no part of the world, just as I am no part of the world. <span id="pos86659"></span><span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Sanctify them<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> by means of the truth; your word is truth. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Just as you sent me into the world, I also sent them into the world. <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> And I am sanctifying myself in their behalf, so that they also may be sanctified by means of truth.</p>
<p id="p120" data-pid="120" class="p120 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> “I make request, not concerning these only, but also concerning those putting faith in me through their word, <span id="chapter17_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> so that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in union with me and I am in union with you, that they also may be in union with us, so that the world may believe that you sent me. <span id="chapter17_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I have given them the glory that you have given me, in order that they may be one just as we are one. <span id="chapter17_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> I in union with them and you in union with me, in order that they may be perfected into one,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> so that the world may know that you sent me and that you loved them just as you loved me. <span id="chapter17_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> Father, I want those whom you have given me to be with me where I am, in order that they may look upon my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the founding of the world. <span id="chapter17_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Righteous Father, the world has, indeed, not come to know you, but I know you, and these have come to know that you sent me. <span id="pos87857"></span><span id="chapter17_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> I have made your name known to them and will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in union with them.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p id="p233" data-pid="233"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:2</span></a> Or “mankind; people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p id="p234" data-pid="234"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:3</span></a> Or “their taking in knowledge of you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p id="p235" data-pid="235"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:6</span></a> Or “known.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p id="p236" data-pid="236"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:6</span></a> Or “obeyed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p id="p237" data-pid="237"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:11</span></a> Or “at unity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p id="p238" data-pid="238"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:11</span></a> Or “at unity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p id="p239" data-pid="239"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:17</span></a> Or “Set them apart; Make them holy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p id="p240" data-pid="240"><a href="1001061147-split17.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">John 17:23</span></a> Or “be completely unified.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
