<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061119"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezra</a>  <a href="biblechapternav15.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav15_8.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos26694"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8</strong> </span>Now these were the heads of their paternal houses and the genealogical enrollment of those who went up with me out of Babylon during the reign of King Ar·ta·xerxʹes: <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> of the sons of Phinʹe·has, Gerʹshom; of the sons of Ithʹa·mar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hatʹtush; <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> of the sons of Shec·a·niʹah, of the sons of Paʹrosh, Zech·a·riʹah, and with him there was an enrollment of 150 males; <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> of the sons of Paʹhath-moʹab, Elʹie·ho-eʹnai the son of Zer·a·hiʹah, and with him 200 males; <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> of the sons of Zatʹtu, Shec·a·niʹah the son of Ja·ha·ziʹel, and with him 300 males; <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> of the sons of Aʹdin, Eʹbed the son of Jonʹa·than, and with him 50 males; <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> of the sons of Eʹlam, Je·shaʹiah the son of Ath·a·liʹah, and with him 70 males; <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> of the sons of Sheph·a·tiʹah, Zeb·a·diʹah the son of Miʹcha·el, and with him 80 males; <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> of the sons of Joʹab, O·ba·diʹah the son of Je·hiʹel, and with him 218 males; <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> of the sons of Baʹni, She·loʹmith the son of Jo·si·phiʹah, and with him 160 males; <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> of the sons of Beʹbai, Zech·a·riʹah the son of Beʹbai, and with him 28 males; <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> of the sons of Azʹgad, Jo·haʹnan the son of Hakʹka·tan, and with him 110 males; <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> of the sons of Ad·o·niʹkam, those who were the last, and these were their names: E·liphʹe·let, Je·iʹel, and She·maiʹah, and with them 60 males; <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> and of the sons of Bigʹvai, Uʹthai and Zabʹbud, and with them 70 males.</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos28116"></span><span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> I assembled them at the river that comes to A·haʹva, and we camped there for three days. But when I examined the people and the priests, I did not find any of the Levites there. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So I sent for E·li·eʹzer, Arʹi·el, She·maiʹah, El·naʹthan, Jaʹrib, El·naʹthan, Nathan, Zech·a·riʹah, and Me·shulʹlam, who were leading men, and for Joiʹa·rib and El·naʹthan, who were instructors. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> Then I gave them a command concerning Idʹdo the leader in the place called Ca·si·phiʹa. I told them to tell Idʹdo and his brothers, the temple servants<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> who were in Ca·si·phiʹa, to bring to us ministers for the house of our God. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Since the good hand of our God was upon us, they brought a discreet man from the sons of Mahʹli the grandson of Leʹvi the son of Israel, namely, She·re·biʹah, and his sons and his brothers, 18 men; <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> and Hash·a·biʹah, and with him Je·shaʹiah from the Me·rarʹites, his brothers and their sons, 20 men. <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> And there were 220 of the temple servants,<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> whom David and the princes gave to the service of the Levites, all of whom had been designated by name.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Then I proclaimed a fast there at the river A·haʹva, to humble ourselves before our God, to seek guidance from him for our journey, for us and for our children and for all our goods. <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemies along the way, because we had said to the king: “The good hand of our God is over all those seeking him, but his strength and his anger are against all those abandoning him.” <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> So we fasted and made request of our God concerning this, and he listened to our entreaty.</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> I now set apart 12 of the chiefs of the priests, namely, <span id="page664" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="664" data-before-text="664"></span>She·re·biʹah and Hash·a·biʹah, along with ten of their brothers. <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> Then I weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the utensils, the contribution that the king and his advisers and his princes and all the Israelites who were present there had made to the house of our God. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Thus I weighed out into their hand 650 talents<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> of silver, 100 silver utensils worth 2 talents, 100 talents of gold, <span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> 20 small gold bowls worth 1,000 darics,<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> and 2 utensils of fine copper, gleaming red, as desirable as gold.</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Then I said to them: “You are holy to Jehovah, and the utensils are holy, and the silver and the gold are a voluntary offering to Jehovah the God of your forefathers. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Guard them carefully until you weigh them out before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites and the princes of the paternal houses of Israel in Jerusalem, in the chambers<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> of the house of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> And the priests and the Levites took the silver and the gold and the utensils that had been weighed out to them, in order to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.</p>
<p id="p54" data-pid="54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos30931"></span><span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> Finally we pulled away from the river A·haʹva on the 12th day of the first month to go to Jerusalem, and the hand of our God was over us, and he rescued us from the hand of the enemy and from ambush along the way. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> So we came to Jerusalem and stayed there for three days. <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> And on the fourth day, we weighed out the silver and the gold and the utensils in the house of our God and handed them over to Merʹe·moth son of U·riʹjah the priest, and with him was El·e·aʹzar son of Phinʹe·has, and with them were the Levites Joʹza·bad son of Jeshʹu·a and No·a·diʹah son of Binʹnu·i. <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> Everything was numbered and weighed, and all the weight was recorded. <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> Those coming out of the captivity, the former exiles, presented burnt sacrifices to the God of Israel, 12 bulls for all Israel, 96 rams, 77 male lambs, and 12 male goats as a sin offering; all of this was a burnt offering to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p55" data-pid="55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then we gave the decrees of the king to the satraps<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> of the king and the governors of the region Beyond the River,<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> and they supported the people and the house of the true God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p130" data-pid="130"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:17</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p id="p131" data-pid="131"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:20</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p id="p132" data-pid="132"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:26</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:27</span></a> A daric was a Persian gold coin. See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:29</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p id="p135" data-pid="135"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:36</span></a> Title meaning “protectors of the realm,” here applied to governors of provinces in the Persian Empire.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p id="p136" data-pid="136"><a href="1001061119-split8.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:36</span></a> Or “of Trans-Euphrates.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
