<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061106"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_1.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1" data-pid="1"><span id="page113" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="113" data-before-text="113"></span><strong>EXODUS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" data-pid="2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos47"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1</strong> </span>Now these are the names of Israel’s sons who came into Egypt with Jacob, each man who came with his household: <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Reuʹben, Simʹe·on, Leʹvi, and Judah; <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Isʹsa·char, Zebʹu·lun, and Benjamin; <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Dan and Naphʹta·li; Gad and Ashʹer. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> And all those<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who were born to Jacob<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> were 70 people,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> but Joseph was already <span id="page114" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="114" data-before-text="114"></span>in Egypt. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Joseph eventually died, and also all his brothers and all that generation. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> And the Israelites<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> became fruitful and began to increase greatly, and they kept on multiplying and growing mightier at an extraordinary rate, so that the land became filled with them.</p>
<p id="p3" data-pid="3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos654"></span><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> In time there arose over Egypt a new king, one who did not know Joseph. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> So he said to his people: “Look! The people of Israel are more numerous and mightier than we are. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Let us deal shrewdly with them. Otherwise, they will continue to multiply, and if a war breaks out, they will join our enemies and fight against us and leave the country.”</p>
<p id="p4" data-pid="4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> So they appointed chiefs of forced labor<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> over them to oppress them with hard labor, and they built storage cities for Pharʹaoh, namely, Piʹthom and Ra·amʹses. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> But the more they would oppress them, the more they would multiply and the more they kept spreading out, so they felt sick with fear because of the Israelites. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Consequently, the Egyptians forced the Israelites into harsh slavery. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> They made their life bitter with hard labor, as they worked with clay mortar and bricks and in every form of slavery in the field. Yes, they made them toil in harsh conditions in every form of slavery.</p>
<p id="p5" data-pid="5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1635"></span><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Later the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives whose names were Shiphʹrah and Puʹah, <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> and he told them: “When you help the Hebrew women to give birth and you see them on the stool for childbirth,<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> you must put the child to death if it is a son; but if it is a daughter, she must live.” <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> However, the midwives feared the true God, and they did not do what the king of Egypt told them. Instead, they would keep the male children alive. <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> In time the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them: “Why have you kept the male children alive?” <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> The midwives said to Pharʹaoh: “The Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women. They are lively and have already given birth before the midwife can come in to them.”</p>
<p id="p6" data-pid="6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> So God dealt well with the midwives, and the people kept increasing and becoming very mighty. <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And because the midwives had feared the true God, he later gave them families. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Finally Pharʹaoh commanded all his people: “You are to throw every newborn son of the Hebrews into the Nile River, but you are to keep every daughter alive.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p id="p380" data-pid="380"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:5</span></a> Or “the souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p id="p381" data-pid="381"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:5</span></a> Lit., “who came out from the thigh of Jacob.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p id="p382" data-pid="382"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:5</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p id="p383" data-pid="383"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:7</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p id="p384" data-pid="384"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:11</span></a> Or “appointed taskmasters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p id="p385" data-pid="385"><a href="1001061106.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 1:16</span></a> Or “the birth stool.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
