<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061116"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_24.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p211" data-pid="211" class="p211 sb"><span id="pos120363"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24</strong> </span>In Je·hoiʹa·kim’s days King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon came against him, and Je·hoiʹa·kim became his servant for three years. However, he turned against him and rebelled. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> Then Jehovah began to send against him marauder bands of Chal·deʹans, Syrians, Moʹab·ites, and Amʹmon·ites. He kept sending them against Judah to destroy it, according to Jehovah’s word that he had spoken through his servants the prophets. <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Surely it was by the order of Jehovah that this happened to Judah, to remove them from his sight because of all the sins that Ma·nasʹseh had committed, <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> and also the innocent blood that he had shed, for he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood and Jehovah was not willing to forgive.</p>
<p id="p212" data-pid="212" class="p212 sb"><span id="page563" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="563" data-before-text="563"></span><span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> As for the rest of the history of Je·hoiʹa·kim, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Then Je·hoiʹa·kim was laid to rest with his forefathers; and his son Je·hoiʹa·chin became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p213" data-pid="213" class="p213 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Never again did the king of Egypt venture out of his land, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to the king of Egypt, from the Wadi<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> of Egypt up to the Eu·phraʹtes River.</p>
<p id="p214" data-pid="214" class="p214 sb"><span id="pos121548"></span><span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Je·hoiʹa·chin was 18 years old when he became king, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ne·hushʹta the daughter of El·naʹthan of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that his father had done. <span id="pos121824"></span><span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> During that time the servants of King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon came up against Jerusalem, and the city came under siege. <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> King Neb·u·chad·nezʹzar of Babylon came to the city while his servants were laying siege to it.</p>
<p id="p215" data-pid="215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> King Je·hoiʹa·chin of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, along with his mother, his servants, his princes, and his court officials; and the king of Babylon took him captive in the eighth year of his reign. <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Then he took out from there all the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king’s house.<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> He cut into pieces all the gold utensils that Solʹo·mon the king of Israel had made in the temple of Jehovah. This happened just as Jehovah had foretold. <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> He took into exile all Jerusalem, all the princes, all the mighty warriors, and every craftsman and metalworker<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a>—he took 10,000 into exile. No one was left behind except the poorest people of the land. <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Thus he took Je·hoiʹa·chin into exile to Babylon; he also led away the king’s mother, the king’s wives, his court officials, and the foremost men of the land, taking them into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The king of Babylon also took into exile to Babylon all the warriors, 7,000, as well as 1,000 craftsmen and metalworkers,<span id="footnotesource199"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote199">*</a> all of them mighty men and trained for war. <span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> The king of Babylon made Mat·ta·niʹah, Je·hoiʹa·chin’s uncle, king in his place and changed his name to Zed·e·kiʹah.</p>
<p id="p216" data-pid="216" class="p216 sb"><span id="pos123280"></span><span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Zed·e·kiʹah was 21 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 11 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ha·muʹtal the daughter of Jeremiah from Libʹnah. <span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Je·hoiʹa·kim had done. <span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> It was because of Jehovah’s anger that these things took place in Jerusalem and in Judah, until he cast them out of his sight. And Zed·e·kiʹah rebelled against the king of Babylon.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p id="p419" data-pid="419"><a href="1001061116-split24.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 24:7</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos124286">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p id="p420" data-pid="420"><a href="1001061116-split24.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 24:13</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p id="p421" data-pid="421"><a href="1001061116-split24.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 24:14</span></a> Or possibly, “builder of bulwarks.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote199"><p id="p422" data-pid="422"><a href="1001061116-split24.xhtml#footnotesource199">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 24:16</span></a> Or possibly, “builders of bulwarks.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
