<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061107"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Leviticus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav3.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav3_27.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p270" data-pid="270" class="p270 sb"><span id="pos125744"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27</strong> </span>Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘If a man makes a special vow to offer the estimated value of a person<span id="footnotesource203"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote203">*</a> to Jehovah, <span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> the estimated value of a male from 20 to 60 years old will be 50 shekels<span id="footnotesource204"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote204">*</a> of silver by the standard shekel of the holy place.<span id="footnotesource205"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote205">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> But if it is a female, the estimated value will be 30 shekels. <span id="chapter27_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> If the age is from 5 to 20 years old, the estimated value of the male will be 20 shekels and 10 shekels for the female. <span id="chapter27_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> If the age is from one month up to five years old, the estimated value of the male will be five shekels of silver and three shekels of silver for the female.</p>
<p id="p271" data-pid="271" class="p271 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> “‘If the age is 60 years and over, the estimated value will be 15 shekels for the male and <span id="page212" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="212" data-before-text="212"></span>10 shekels for the female. <span id="chapter27_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> But if he is too poor to pay the estimated value, the person will stand before the priest, and the priest will set a value on him. The priest will make the valuation according to what the one making the vow can afford.</p>
<p id="p272" data-pid="272" class="p272 sb"><span id="pos126768"></span><span id="chapter27_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “‘If the vow involves an animal that is suitable for offering to Jehovah, whatever may be given to Jehovah will become something holy. <span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> He may not replace it or exchange it with good for bad or with bad for good. But if he should exchange it with one animal for another animal, the original and what is exchanged for it will both become holy. <span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> If it is an unclean animal that may not be presented as an offering to Jehovah, he will then stand the animal before the priest. <span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The priest will then set its value, as to whether it is good or bad. The value estimated by the priest will stand. <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> But if he ever wants to buy it back, he must then give a fifth of it in addition to the estimated value.</p>
<p id="p273" data-pid="273" class="p273 sb"><span id="pos127490"></span><span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> “‘Now if a man should sanctify his house as something holy to Jehovah, the priest will then set its value, whether it is good or bad. According to the value that the priest sets, that is what it will cost. <span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> But if the one who sanctifies his house wants to buy it back, he must then give a fifth of the money of the estimated value in addition to it, and it will become his.</p>
<p id="p274" data-pid="274" class="p274 sb"><span id="pos127876"></span><span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “‘If a man sanctifies to Jehovah some of the field that he possesses, the value will be estimated in proportion to the seed needed to sow it: a hoʹmer<span id="footnotesource206"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote206">*</a> of barley seed will be 50 shekels of silver. <span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> If he sanctifies his field from the year of Jubilee, the estimated value stands. <span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> If he sanctifies his field after the Jubilee, the priest will calculate for him the price in proportion to the years that are left until the next year of Jubilee, and a deduction should be made from the estimated value. <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> But if the one who sanctified it should ever buy the field back, he must then give a fifth of the money of the estimated value in addition to it, and it will remain his. <span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Now if he should not buy the field back and the field is sold to another man, it may not be bought back again. <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> When the field is released in the Jubilee, it will become something holy to Jehovah, as a field that is devoted to him. It will become the property of the priests.</p>
<p id="p275" data-pid="275" class="p275 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> “‘If a man sanctifies to Jehovah a field he purchased that is not part of his hereditary property, <span id="chapter27_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> the priest will calculate for him the amount of the valuation up until the year of Jubilee, and he will give the estimated value on that day. It is something holy to Jehovah. <span id="chapter27_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> In the year of Jubilee, the field will return to the one he bought it from, to the one the land belongs to.</p>
<p id="p276" data-pid="276" class="p276 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “‘Every value should be estimated by the standard shekel of the holy place. The shekel should amount to 20 geʹrahs.<span id="footnotesource207"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote207">*</a></p>
<p id="p277" data-pid="277" class="p277 sb"><span id="pos129382"></span><span id="chapter27_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> “‘However, no one should sanctify the firstborn of the animals, since it is born as the firstborn for Jehovah. Whether bull or sheep, it already belongs to Jehovah. <span id="chapter27_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> If it is among the unclean animals and he redeems it according to the estimated value, he should give a fifth of it in addition to it. But if it is not bought back, it will be sold according to the estimated value.</p>
<p id="p278" data-pid="278" class="p278 sb"><span id="page213" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="213" data-before-text="213"></span><span id="pos129776"></span><span id="chapter27_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> “‘But no devoted thing that a man devotes unconditionally<span id="footnotesource208"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote208">*</a> to Jehovah from his belongings may be sold or bought back, whether from mankind or animals or the field he possesses. Every devoted thing is something most holy to Jehovah. <span id="chapter27_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Furthermore, no condemned<span id="footnotesource209"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote209">*</a> person who is set apart for destruction may be redeemed. He should be put to death without fail.</p>
<p id="p279" data-pid="279" class="p279 sb"><span id="pos130152"></span><span id="chapter27_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> “‘Every tenth part<span id="footnotesource210"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote210">*</a> of the land, whether from the produce of the field or the fruit of the trees, belongs to Jehovah. It is something holy to Jehovah. <span id="chapter27_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> If a man ever wants to buy any of his tenth part back, he should give a fifth of it in addition to it. <span id="chapter27_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> As for every tenth part of the herd and flock, everything that passes under the shepherd’s staff, the tenth animal<span id="footnotesource211"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote211">*</a> should become something holy to Jehovah. <span id="chapter27_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> He should not examine whether it is good or bad, neither should he exchange it. But if he would ever try to exchange it, both the original and what is exchanged for it should become something holy. It may not be bought back.’”</p>
<p id="p280" data-pid="280" class="p280 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> These are the commandments that Jehovah gave to Moses for the Israelites on Mount Siʹnai.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote203"><p id="p484" data-pid="484"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource203">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:2</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote204"><p id="p485" data-pid="485"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource204">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:3</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote205"><p id="p486" data-pid="486"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource205">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:3</span></a> Or “by the holy shekel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote206"><p id="p487" data-pid="487"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource206">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:16</span></a> A homer equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="1001061235.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote207"><p id="p488" data-pid="488"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource207">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:25</span></a> A gerah equaled 0.57 g (0.01835 oz t). See <a href="1001061236.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote208"><p id="p489" data-pid="489"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource208">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:28</span></a> Or “devotes to destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote209"><p id="p490" data-pid="490"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource209">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:29</span></a> Or “devoted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote210"><p id="p491" data-pid="491"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource210">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:30</span></a> Or “Every tithe.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote211"><p id="p492" data-pid="492"><a href="1001061107-split27.xhtml#footnotesource211">^ <span class="footnoteref">Lev. 27:32</span></a> Or “head.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
