<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061108"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_2.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p21" data-pid="21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos6452"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2</strong> </span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “The Israelites should encamp where their three-tribe division is assigned, each man near the banner<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> of his paternal house. They should camp facing the tent of meeting, all around it.</p>
<p id="p22" data-pid="22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos6691"></span><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> “Those camping on the east side, toward the sunrise, will be the three-tribe division of the encampment of Judah by their companies;<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> the chieftain for the sons of Judah is Nahʹshon the son of Am·minʹa·dab. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 74,600. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Isʹsa·char; the chieftain for the sons of Isʹsa·char is Ne·thanʹel the son of Zuʹar. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 54,400. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Next is the tribe of Zebʹu·lun; the chieftain for the sons of Zebʹu·lun is E·liʹab the son of Heʹlon. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 57,400.</p>
<p id="p23" data-pid="23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> “All those registered in the armies of the camp of Judah are 186,400. They should break camp first.</p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos7385"></span><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “The three-tribe division of the encampment of Reuʹben by their companies<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> will be toward the south; the chieftain for the sons of Reuʹben is E·liʹzur the son of Shedʹe·ur. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 46,500. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Simʹe·on; the chieftain for the sons of Simʹe·on is She·luʹmi·el the son of Zu·ri·shadʹdai. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 59,300. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Next is the tribe of Gad; the chieftain for the sons of Gad is E·liʹa·saph the son of Reuʹel. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 45,650.</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> “All those registered in the armies of the camp of Reuʹben are 151,450, and they should break camp second.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos8074"></span><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> “When the tent of meeting is moved, the camp of the Levites should be in the middle of the other camps.</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb">“They should travel in the same order as they encamp, with each in his place, according to their three-tribe divisions.</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos8307"></span><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “The three-tribe division of the encampment of Eʹphra·im by their companies<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> will be toward the west; the chieftain for the sons of Eʹphra·im is E·lishʹa·ma the son of Am·miʹhud. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 40,500. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Next to him will be the tribe of Ma·nasʹseh; the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nasʹseh is Ga·maʹli·el the son of Pe·dahʹzur. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 32,200. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Next is the tribe of Benjamin; the chieftain for the sons of Benjamin is Abʹi·dan the son of Gid·e·oʹni. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 35,400.</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> “All those registered in the armies of the camp of Eʹphra·im are 108,100, and they should break camp third.</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos9003"></span><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> “The three-tribe division of the encampment of Dan by their companies<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> will be toward the north; the chieftain for the sons of Dan is A·hi·eʹzer the son of Am·mi·shadʹdai. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 62,700. <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Ashʹer; the chieftain for the sons of Ashʹer is Paʹgi·el the son of Ochʹran. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 41,500. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Next is the tribe of Naphʹta·li; the chieftain for the sons of Naphʹta·li is A·hiʹra the son of <span id="page218" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="218" data-before-text="218"></span>Eʹnan. <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> Those registered in his army are 53,400.</p>
<p id="p31" data-pid="31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> “All those registered in the camp of Dan are 157,600. They should break camp last, according to their three-tribe divisions.”</p>
<p id="p32" data-pid="32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos9707"></span><span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> These were the Israelites who were registered according to their paternal houses; the total of those in the camps registered for the army was 603,550. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> But the Levites did not get registered along with the other Israelites, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> The Israelites did everything that Jehovah had commanded Moses. This is how they encamped by their three-tribe divisions and how they broke camp, each by family and according to their paternal houses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p id="p411" data-pid="411"><a href="1001061108-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:2</span></a> Or “sign.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p id="p412" data-pid="412"><a href="1001061108-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:3</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p id="p413" data-pid="413"><a href="1001061108-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:10</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p id="p414" data-pid="414"><a href="1001061108-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:18</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p id="p415" data-pid="415"><a href="1001061108-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:25</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
