<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061130"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">31</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_31.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p358" data-pid="358" class="p358 sb"><span id="pos127401"></span><span id="chapter31"></span><span id="chapter31_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>31</strong> </span>In the 11th year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter31_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> “Son of man, say to Pharʹaoh king of Egypt and to his hordes,</p><p data-pid="358" class="p358 sz">‘Whom are you like in your greatness?</p>
<p id="p359" data-pid="359" class="p359 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3</sup></strong> There was an As·syrʹi·an, a cedar in Lebʹa·non,</p><p data-pid="359" class="p359 sz">With beautiful branches like a shady thicket, lofty in stature;</p><p data-pid="359" class="p359 sz">Its top was among the clouds.</p>
<p id="p360" data-pid="360" class="p360 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4</sup></strong> The waters made it grow big, the deep springs of water caused it to grow high.</p>
<p id="p361" data-pid="361" class="p361 sz">Streams were all around where it was planted;</p><p data-pid="361" class="p361 sz">Their channels watered all the trees of the field.</p>
<p id="p362" data-pid="362" class="p362 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5</sup></strong> That is why it grew taller than all the other trees of the field.</p>
<p id="p363" data-pid="363" class="p363 sz">Its boughs multiplied, and its branches grew long</p><p data-pid="363" class="p363 sz">Because of the abundant water in its streams.</p>
<p id="p364" data-pid="364" class="p364 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6</sup></strong> All the birds of the sky nested in its boughs,</p><p data-pid="364" class="p364 sz">All the wild animals of the field gave birth under its branches,</p><p data-pid="364" class="p364 sz">And all the populous nations were dwelling in its shade.</p>
<p id="p365" data-pid="365" class="p365 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7</sup></strong> It became majestic in beauty and in the length of its branches,</p><p data-pid="365" class="p365 sz">For its roots went down into abundant waters.</p>
<p id="p366" data-pid="366" class="p366 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8</sup></strong> No other cedars in the garden of God could compare to it.</p>
<p id="p367" data-pid="367" class="p367 sz">None of the juniper trees had boughs like it,</p><p data-pid="367" class="p367 sz">And none of the plane trees could match its branches.</p>
<p id="p368" data-pid="368" class="p368 sz">No other tree in the garden of God could rival its beauty.</p>
<p id="p369" data-pid="369" class="p369 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9</sup></strong> I made it beautiful, with abundant foliage,</p><p data-pid="369" class="p369 sz">And all the other trees of Eʹden, the garden of the true God, envied it.’</p>
<p id="p370" data-pid="370" class="p370 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because it<span id="footnotesource244"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote244">*</a> became so tall, lifting its top among the clouds, and its heart became arrogant because of its height, <span id="chapter31_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> I will hand it over to the mighty ruler of the nations. He will surely act against it, and I will reject it for its wickedness. <span id="chapter31_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> And foreigners, the most ruthless of the nations, will cut it down, and they will abandon it on the mountains, and its foliage will fall in all the valleys, and its branches will lie broken in all the streams of the land. All the peoples of the earth will depart from its shade and abandon it. <span id="chapter31_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> All the birds of the sky will live on its fallen trunk, and all the wild animals of the field on its branches. <span id="chapter31_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> This is so that no tree near the waters should grow so tall or lift up its top among the clouds and that no well-watered tree may reach up to them in height. For they will all be given over to death, to the land down below, along with the sons of mankind, who are going down into the pit.’<span id="footnotesource245"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote245">*</a></p>
<p id="p371" data-pid="371" class="p371 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘On the day it goes down to the Grave,<span id="footnotesource246"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote246">*</a> I will cause a mourning. Therefore, I will cover over the deep <span id="page1177" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1177" data-before-text="1177"></span>waters and hold back its streams so that the abundant waters are restrained. I will darken Lebʹa·non because of it, and the trees of the field will all wither away. <span id="chapter31_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> At the sound of its downfall, I will cause nations to shudder when I bring it down to the Grave<span id="footnotesource247"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote247">*</a> along with all those going down into the pit,<span id="footnotesource248"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote248">*</a> and all the trees of Eʹden, the choicest and the best of Lebʹa·non, all that are well-watered, will be comforted in the land down below. <span id="chapter31_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> They have gone down to the Grave<span id="footnotesource249"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote249">*</a> with him, to those slain by the sword, together with his supporters<span id="footnotesource250"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote250">*</a> who lived in his shadow among the nations.’</p>
<p id="p372" data-pid="372" class="p372 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> “‘Which of the trees of Eʹden was like you in glory and greatness? But you will certainly be brought down with the trees of Eʹden to the land down below. You will lie down among the uncircumcised ones, with those slain by the sword. This will happen to Pharʹaoh and all his hordes,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote244"><p id="p834" data-pid="834"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource244">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:10</span></a> Lit., “you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote245"><p id="p835" data-pid="835"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource245">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:14</span></a> Or “grave.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote246"><p id="p836" data-pid="836"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource246">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:15</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote247"><p id="p837" data-pid="837"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource247">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:16</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote248"><p id="p838" data-pid="838"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource248">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:16</span></a> Or “grave.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote249"><p id="p839" data-pid="839"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource249">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:17</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos41261">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote250"><p id="p840" data-pid="840"><a href="1001061130-split31.xhtml#footnotesource250">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 31:17</span></a> Lit., “arm.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
