<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_15.xhtml">1 - 47</a></p>
<p id="p111" data-pid="111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos76778"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15</strong> </span>Immediately at dawn, the chief priests with the elders and the scribes, indeed, the whole Sanʹhe·drin, consulted together, and they bound Jesus and led him off and handed him over to Pilate. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> So Pilate put the question to him: “Are you the King of the Jews?” In answer he said: “You yourself say it.” <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But the chief priests were accusing him of many things. <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> Now Pilate began questioning him again, saying: “Have you no reply to make? See how <span id="page1374" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1374" data-before-text="1374"></span>many charges they are bringing against you.” <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed.</p>
<p id="p112" data-pid="112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Well, from festival to festival, he used to release to them one prisoner whom they requested. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> At the time the man named Bar·abʹbas was in prison with the seditionists, who in their sedition had committed murder. <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> So the crowd came up and began to make their request according to what Pilate used to do for them. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> He responded to them, saying: “Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> For Pilate was aware that out of envy the chief priests had handed him over. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release Bar·abʹbas to them instead. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Again in reply Pilate said to them: “What, then, should I do with the one you call the King of the Jews?” <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Once more they cried out: “To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> But Pilate went on to say to them: “Why? What bad thing did he do?” Still they cried out all the more: “To the stake with him!”<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> At that Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released Bar·abʹbas to them; and after having Jesus whipped, he handed him over to be executed on the stake.</p>
<p id="p113" data-pid="113" class="p113 sb"><span id="pos78430"></span><span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> The soldiers now led him off into the courtyard, that is, into the governor’s residence, and they called the whole body of troops together. <span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And they dressed him in purple and braided a crown of thorns and put it on him; <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> and they began to call out to him: “Greetings,<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a> you King of the Jews!” <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> Also, they were hitting him on the head with a reed and spitting on him, and they got on their knees and bowed down<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> to him. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> Finally, after they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple and put his outer garments on him. And they led him out to nail him to the stake. <span id="pos79033"></span><span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Also, they compelled into service a passerby, a certain Simon of Cy·reʹne, coming from the countryside, the father of Alexander and Ruʹfus, to carry his torture stake.<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a></p>
<p id="p114" data-pid="114" class="p114 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> So they brought him to the place called <em>Golʹgo·tha,</em> which means, when translated, “Skull Place.” <span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> Here they tried to give him wine drugged with myrrh, but he would not take it. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> And they nailed him to the stake and distributed his outer garments by casting lots over them to decide who would take what. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It was now the third hour,<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> and they nailed him to the stake. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> And the inscription of the charge against him was written: “The King of the Jews.” <span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moreover, they put two robbers on stakes alongside him, one on his right and one on his left. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong><span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> —— <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> And those passing by spoke abusively to him, shaking their heads and saying: “Ha! You who would throw down the temple and build it in three days, <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> save yourself by coming down off the torture stake.”<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> In the same way also, the chief priests with the scribes were mocking him among themselves, saying: “Others he saved; himself he cannot save! <span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Let the Christ, the King of Israel, now come down off the torture stake,<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> so that we may see and believe.” Even those who were on stakes alongside him were reproaching him.</p>
<p id="p115" data-pid="115" class="p115 sb"><span id="page1375" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1375" data-before-text="1375"></span><span id="pos80365"></span><span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> When it became the sixth hour,<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> a darkness fell over all the land until the ninth hour.<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> And at the ninth hour, Jesus called out with a loud voice: <em>“Eʹli, Eʹli, laʹma sa·bach·thaʹni?”</em> which means, when translated: “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> And some of those standing near, on hearing it, began to say: “See! He is calling E·liʹjah.” <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> Then someone ran, soaked a sponge in sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying: “Let him be! Let us see whether E·liʹjah comes to take him down.” <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> But Jesus let out a loud cry and expired.<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> And the curtain of the sanctuary was torn in two from top to bottom. <span id="chapter15_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> Now when the army officer who was standing by with him in view saw that he had expired under these circumstances, he said: “Certainly this man was God’s Son.”</p>
<p id="p116" data-pid="116" class="p116 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> There were also women watching from a distance, among them Mary Magʹda·lene as well as Mary the mother of James the Less and of Joʹses, and Sa·loʹme, <span id="chapter15_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> who used to accompany him and minister to him when he was in Galʹi·lee, and many other women who had come up together with him to Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p117" data-pid="117" class="p117 sb"><span id="pos81554"></span><span id="chapter15_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> Now as it was already late in the afternoon, and since it was Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath, <span id="chapter15_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> there came Joseph of Ar·i·ma·theʹa, a reputable member of the Council, who also himself was waiting for the Kingdom of God. He took courage and went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. <span id="chapter15_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> But Pilate wondered whether he could already be dead, and summoning the army officer, he asked him whether Jesus had already died. <span id="chapter15_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> So after making certain from the army officer, he granted the body to Joseph. <span id="chapter15_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> After he bought fine linen and took him down, he wrapped him in the fine linen and laid him in a tomb<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> that was quarried out of rock; then he rolled a stone up to the entrance of the tomb. <span id="chapter15_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> But Mary Magʹda·lene and Mary the mother of Joʹses continued looking at where he had been laid.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p id="p220" data-pid="220"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:13</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p id="p221" data-pid="221"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:14</span></a> Or “Execute him on the stake!”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p id="p222" data-pid="222"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:18</span></a> Or “Hail.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p id="p223" data-pid="223"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:19</span></a> Or “did obeisance.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p id="p224" data-pid="224"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:21</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p id="p225" data-pid="225"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:25</span></a> That is, about 9:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p id="p226" data-pid="226"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:28</span></a> See <a href="1001061203.xhtml">App. A3</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p id="p227" data-pid="227"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:30</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p id="p228" data-pid="228"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:32</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos109121">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p id="p229" data-pid="229"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:33</span></a> That is, about 12:00 noon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p id="p230" data-pid="230"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:33</span></a> That is, about 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p id="p231" data-pid="231"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:37</span></a> Or “breathed his last.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p id="p232" data-pid="232"><a href="1001061145-split15.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 15:46</span></a> Or “memorial tomb.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
