<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061105"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_3.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p24" data-pid="24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos8074"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3</strong> </span>Now the serpent was the most cautious<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a> of all the wild animals of the field that Jehovah God had made. So it said to the woman: “Did God really say that <span id="page46" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="46" data-before-text="46"></span>you must not eat from every tree of the garden?” <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> At this the woman said to the serpent: “We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> But God has said about the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden: ‘You must not eat from it, no, you must not touch it; otherwise you will die.’” <span id="pos8547"></span><span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> At this the serpent said to the woman: “You certainly will not die. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> For God knows that in the very day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and bad.”</p>
<p id="p25" data-pid="25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> Consequently, the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was something desirable to the eyes, yes, the tree was pleasing to look at. So she began taking of its fruit and eating it. Afterward, she also gave some to her husband when he was with her, and he began eating it. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized that they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together and made loin coverings for themselves.</p>
<p id="p26" data-pid="26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> Later they heard the voice of Jehovah God as he was walking in the garden about the breezy part of the day, and the man and his wife hid from the face of Jehovah God among the trees of the garden. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> And Jehovah God kept calling to the man and saying to him: “Where are you?” <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Finally he said: “I heard your voice in the garden, but I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself.” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> At that he said: “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree from which I commanded you not to eat?” <span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> The man said: “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, so I ate.” <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Jehovah God then said to the woman: “What is this you have done?” The woman replied: “The serpent deceived me, so I ate.”</p>
<p id="p27" data-pid="27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos9966"></span><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> Then Jehovah God said to the serpent: “Because you have done this, you are the cursed one out of all the domestic animals and out of all the wild animals of the field. On your belly you will go, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. <span id="pos10217"></span><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And I will put enmity<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> between you and the woman and between your offspring<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> and her offspring.<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> He will crush<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> your head, and you will strike<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> him in the heel.”</p>
<p id="p28" data-pid="28" class="p28 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> To the woman he said: “I will greatly increase the pain of your pregnancy; in pain you will give birth to children, and your longing will be for your husband, and he will dominate you.”</p>
<p id="p29" data-pid="29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And to Adam<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> he said: “Because you listened to your wife’s voice and ate from the tree concerning which I gave you this command, ‘You must not eat from it,’ cursed is the ground on your account. In pain you will eat its produce all the days of your life. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> It will grow thorns and thistles for you, and you must eat the vegetation of the field. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> In the sweat of your face you will eat bread<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> until you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken. For dust you are and to dust you will return.”</p>
<p id="p30" data-pid="30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> After this Adam named his wife Eve,<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> because she was to become the mother of everyone living. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> And Jehovah God made long garments from skins for Adam and for his wife, to clothe them. <span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> Jehovah God then said: “Here the man has become like one of us in knowing <span id="page47" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="47" data-before-text="47"></span>good and bad. Now in order that he may not put his hand out and take fruit also from the tree of life and eat and live forever,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a>—” <span id="pos11523"></span><span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> With that Jehovah God expelled him from the garden of Eʹden to cultivate the ground from which he had been taken. <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> So he drove the man out, and he posted at the east of the garden of Eʹden the cherubs and the flaming blade of a sword that was turning continuously to guard the way to the tree of life.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p id="p489" data-pid="489"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:1</span></a> Or “shrewdest; craftiest.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p id="p490" data-pid="490"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:15</span></a> Or “hostility.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p id="p491" data-pid="491"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:15</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p id="p492" data-pid="492"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:15</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p id="p493" data-pid="493"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:15</span></a> Or “bruise; strike.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p id="p494" data-pid="494"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:15</span></a> Or “bruise; crush.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p id="p495" data-pid="495"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:17</span></a> Meaning “Earthling Man; Mankind; Humankind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p id="p496" data-pid="496"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:19</span></a> Or “food.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p id="p497" data-pid="497"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:20</span></a> Meaning “Living One.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p id="p498" data-pid="498"><a href="1001061105-split3.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 3:22</span></a> Or “to time indefinite.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
