<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Romans 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061149"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Romans</a>  <a href="biblechapternav45.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav45_9.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p48" data-pid="48" class="p48 sb"><span id="pos30796"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9</strong> </span>I am telling the truth in Christ; I am not lying, as my conscience bears witness with me in holy spirit, <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> that I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart. <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> For I could wish that I myself were separated from the Christ as the cursed one for the sake of my brothers, my relatives according to the flesh, <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> who are Israelites. To them belong the adoption as sons and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the Law and the sacred service and the promises. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> To them the forefathers belong, and from them the Christ descended according to the flesh. God, who is over all, be praised forever. Amen.</p>
<p id="p49" data-pid="49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos31421"></span><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who descend from Israel are really “Israel.” <span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> Neither are they all children because they are Abraham’s offspring;<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> rather, “What will be called your offspring<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> will be through Isaac.” <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> That is, the children in the flesh are not really the children of God, but the children by the promise are counted as the offspring.<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> For the word of promise was as follows: “At this time I will come and Sarah will have a son.” <span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> Not only then but also when Re·bekʹah conceived twins from the one man, Isaac our forefather;<span id="page1517" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1517" data-before-text="1517"></span> <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> for when they had not yet been born and had not practiced anything good or bad, so that God’s purpose respecting the choosing might continue dependent, not on works, but on the One who calls, <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> it was said to her: “The older will be the slave of the younger.” <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> Just as it is written: “I loved Jacob, but Eʹsau I hated.”</p>
<p id="p50" data-pid="50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos32366"></span><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> What are we to say, then? Is there injustice with God? Certainly not! <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> For he says to Moses: “I will show mercy to whomever I will show mercy, and I will show compassion to whomever I will show compassion.” <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> So, then, it depends, not on a person’s desire or on his effort,<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> but on God, who has mercy. <span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> For the scripture says to Pharʹaoh: “For this very reason I have let you remain: to show my power in connection with you and to have my name declared in all the earth.” <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> So, then, he has mercy on whomever he wishes, but he lets whomever he wishes become obstinate.</p>
<p id="p51" data-pid="51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You will therefore say to me: “Why does he still find fault? For who has withstood his will?” <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> But who are you, O man, to be answering back to God? Does the thing molded say to its molder: “Why did you make me this way?” <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> What? Does not the potter have authority over the clay to make from the same lump one vessel for an honorable use, another for a dishonorable use? <span id="pos33358"></span><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> What, then, if God had the will to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, and he tolerated with much patience vessels of wrath made fit for destruction? <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> And if this was done to make known the riches of his glory on vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory, <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> namely, us, whom he called not only from among Jews but also from among nations, what of it? <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It is as he says also in Ho·seʹa: “Those not my people I will call ‘my people,’ and her who was not loved, ‘beloved’; <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> and in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’”</p>
<p id="p52" data-pid="52" class="p52 sb"><span id="pos34015"></span><span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Moreover, Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: “Although the number of the sons of Israel may be as the sand of the sea, only the remnant will be saved. <span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> For Jehovah<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> will make an accounting on the earth, concluding it and cutting it short.”<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Also, just as Isaiah foretold: “Unless Jehovah<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> of armies had left an offspring<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> to us, we should have become just like Sodʹom, and we should have resembled Go·morʹrah.”</p>
<p id="p53" data-pid="53" class="p53 sb"><span id="pos34449"></span><span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> What are we to say, then? That people of the nations, although not pursuing righteousness, attained righteousness, the righteousness that results from faith; <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> but Israel, although pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain to that law. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> For what reason? Because they pursued it, not by faith, but as by works. They stumbled over the “stone of stumbling”; <span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> as it is written: “Look! I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, but the one who rests his faith on it will not be disappointed.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p id="p133" data-pid="133"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:7</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p id="p134" data-pid="134"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:7</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p id="p135" data-pid="135"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:8</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p id="p136" data-pid="136"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:16</span></a> Lit., “not on the one who desires nor on the one who runs.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p id="p137" data-pid="137"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:28</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p id="p138" data-pid="138"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:28</span></a> Or “executing it speedily.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p id="p139" data-pid="139"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:29</span></a> See <a href="1001061205.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p id="p140" data-pid="140"><a href="1001061149-split9.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">Rom. 9:29</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
