<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Mark 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061145"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Mark</a>  <a href="biblechapternav41.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav41_10.xhtml">1 - 52</a></p>
<p id="p67" data-pid="67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos46683"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10</strong> </span>From there he got up and came to the borders<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> of Ju·deʹa across the Jordan, and again crowds gathered to him. As he was accustomed to do, he again began teaching them. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> And Pharisees approached, intent on testing him, and they asked whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife. <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> He answered them: “What did Moses command you?” <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> They said: “Moses allowed the writing of a certificate of dismissal and divorcing her.” <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> But Jesus said to them: “Out of regard for your hard-heartedness, he wrote this commandment for you. <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> However, from the beginning of creation, ‘He made them male and female. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> For this reason a man will leave his father and his mother, <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> and the two will be one flesh,’ so that they are no longer two, but one flesh. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> Therefore, what God has yoked together, let no man put apart.” <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> When they were again in the house, the disciples began to question him about this. <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> He said to them: “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> and if ever a woman after divorcing her husband marries another, she commits adultery.”</p>
<p id="p68" data-pid="68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos47808"></span><span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> People now began bringing him young children for him to touch them, but the disciples reprimanded them. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> At seeing this, Jesus was indignant and said to them: “Let the young children come to me; do not try to stop them, for the Kingdom of God belongs to such ones. <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a young child will by no means enter into it.” <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And he took the children into his arms and began blessing them, laying his hands on them.</p>
<p id="p69" data-pid="69" class="p69 sb"><span id="pos48310"></span><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> As he was going on his way, a man ran up and fell on his knees before him and put the question to him: “Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit everlasting life?” <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> Jesus said to him: “Why do you call me good? Nobody is good except one, God. <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> You know the commandments: ‘Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor <span id="page1365" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1365" data-before-text="1365"></span>your father and your mother.’” <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20</sup></strong> The man said to him: “Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth on.” <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21</sup></strong> Jesus looked at him and felt love for him and said, “One thing is missing about you: Go, sell what things you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come be my follower.” <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22</sup></strong> But he grew sad at the answer and went away grieved, for he had many possessions.</p>
<p id="p70" data-pid="70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23</sup></strong> After looking around, Jesus said to his disciples: “How difficult it will be for those with money to enter into the Kingdom of God!” <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24</sup></strong> But the disciples were surprised at his words. Jesus then responded: “Children, how difficult it is to enter into the Kingdom of God! <span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25</sup></strong> It is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God.” <span id="pos49525"></span><span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26</sup></strong> They became still more astounded and said to him:<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> “Who possibly can be saved?” <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27</sup></strong> Looking straight at them, Jesus said: “With men it is impossible but not so with God, for all things are possible with God.” <span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28</sup></strong> Peter began to say to him: “Look! We have left all things and followed you.” <span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29</sup></strong> Jesus said: “Truly I say to you, no one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30</sup></strong> who will not get 100 times more now in this period of time—houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and fields, with persecutions—and in the coming system of things,<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a> everlasting life. <span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31</sup></strong> But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”</p>
<p id="p71" data-pid="71" class="p71 sb"><span id="pos50265"></span><span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32</sup></strong> Now they were going on the road up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them, and they were astonished, but those who followed began to fear. Once again he took the Twelve aside and started to tell them these things that were about to happen to him: <span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33</sup></strong> “Look! We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be handed over to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death and hand him over to men of the nations, <span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34</sup></strong> and these will mock him and spit on him and scourge him and kill him, but three days later he will rise.”</p>
<p id="p72" data-pid="72" class="p72 sb"><span id="pos50836"></span><span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35</sup></strong> James and John, the sons of Zebʹe·dee, approached him and said to him: “Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you.” <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36</sup></strong> He said to them: “What do you want me to do for you?” <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37</sup></strong> They replied: “Grant us to sit down, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your glory.” <span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38</sup></strong> But Jesus said to them: “You do not know what you are asking for. Can you drink the cup that I am drinking or be baptized with the baptism with which I am being baptized?” <span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39</sup></strong> They said to him: “We can.” At that Jesus said to them: “The cup I am drinking, you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am being baptized, you will be baptized. <span id="chapter10_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40</sup></strong> However, to sit down at my right hand or at my left is not mine to give, but it belongs to those for whom it has been prepared.”</p>
<p id="p73" data-pid="73" class="p73 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41</sup></strong> When the ten others heard about it, they became indignant at James and John. <span id="chapter10_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42</sup></strong> But Jesus called them to him and said to them: “You know that those who appear to be<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> ruling the <span id="page1366" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="1366" data-before-text="1366"></span>nations lord it over them and their great ones wield authority over them. <span id="chapter10_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43</sup></strong> This must not be the way among you; but whoever wants to become great among you must be your minister, <span id="chapter10_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44</sup></strong> and whoever wants to be first among you must be the slave of all. <span id="pos52090"></span><span id="chapter10_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45</sup></strong> For even the Son of man came, not to be ministered to, but to minister and to give his life<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> as a ransom in exchange for many.”</p>
<p id="p74" data-pid="74" class="p74 sb"><span id="pos52227"></span><span id="chapter10_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46</sup></strong> They then came into Jerʹi·cho. But as he and his disciples and a considerable crowd were going out of Jerʹi·cho, Bar·ti·maeʹus (the son of Ti·maeʹus), a blind beggar, was sitting beside the road. <span id="chapter10_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47</sup></strong> When he heard that it was Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, he started shouting and saying: “Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me!” <span id="chapter10_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48</sup></strong> At this many began rebuking him, telling him to be silent, but all the more he kept shouting: “Son of David, have mercy on me!” <span id="chapter10_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49</sup></strong> So Jesus stopped and said: “Call him to me.” So they called the blind man, saying to him: “Take courage! Get up; he is calling you.” <span id="chapter10_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50</sup></strong> Throwing off his outer garment, he leaped to his feet and went to Jesus. <span id="chapter10_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51</sup></strong> Then Jesus said to him: “What do you want me to do for you?” The blind man said to him: <em>“Rab·boʹni,</em><span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> let me recover my sight.” <span id="chapter10_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52</sup></strong> And Jesus said to him: “Go. Your faith has made you well.” And immediately he recovered his sight, and he began to follow him on the road.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p id="p177" data-pid="177"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:1</span></a> Or “frontiers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p id="p178" data-pid="178"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:26</span></a> Or possibly, “to one another.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p id="p179" data-pid="179"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:30</span></a> Or “the coming age.” See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos111882">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p id="p180" data-pid="180"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:42</span></a> Or “those who are recognized as.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p id="p181" data-pid="181"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:45</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p id="p182" data-pid="182"><a href="1001061145-split10.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Mark 10:51</span></a> Meaning “Teacher.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
