<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" class="dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/epubs.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body dir="ltr" xml:lang="en" class="jwac dir-ltr ml-E ms-ROMAN docClass-1 pub-nwt docId-1001061118"><p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_17.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p93" data-pid="93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos54854"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17</strong> </span>And his son Je·hoshʹa·phat became king in his place, and he strengthened his position over Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2</sup></strong> He stationed military forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and put garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Eʹphra·im that Aʹsa his father had captured. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3</sup></strong> Jehovah continued with Je·hoshʹa·phat because he walked in the former ways of his forefather David and did not search for the Baʹals. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4</sup></strong> For he searched for the God of his father and followed<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> his commandment and not the practices of Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5</sup></strong> Jehovah kept the kingdom firmly established in his hand; and all Judah continued to give gifts to Je·hoshʹa·phat, and he had riches and glory in abundance. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6</sup></strong> His heart became bold in the ways of Jehovah, and he even removed the high places and the sacred poles<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> from Judah.</p>
<p id="p94" data-pid="94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos55667"></span><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7</sup></strong> In the third year of his reign he sent for his princes, Ben-haʹil, O·ba·diʹah, Zech·a·riʹah, Ne·thanʹel, and Mi·caiʹah, to teach in the cities of Judah. <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8</sup></strong> There were Levites with them: She·maiʹah, Neth·a·niʹah, Zeb·a·diʹah, Asʹa·hel, She·mirʹa·moth, Je·honʹa·than, Ad·o·niʹjah, To·biʹjah, and Tob-ad·o·niʹjah, and along with them E·lishʹa·ma and Je·hoʹram the priests. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9</sup></strong> They began teaching in Judah, taking with them the book of Jehovah’s Law, and they went around through all the cities of Judah teaching among the people.</p>
<p id="p95" data-pid="95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos56202"></span><span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10</sup></strong> And the dread of Jehovah came upon all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, and they did not fight against Je·hoshʹa·phat. <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11</sup></strong> And the Phi·lisʹtines brought to Je·hoshʹa·phat gifts and money as tribute. The Arabs brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats from their flocks.</p>
<p id="p96" data-pid="96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12</sup></strong> Je·hoshʹa·phat grew greater and greater, and he continued building fortified places and storage cities in Judah. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13</sup></strong> He carried out extensive projects in the cities of Judah, and <span id="page625" class="pageNum" aria-hidden="true" data-no="625" data-before-text="625"></span>he had soldiers, mighty warriors, in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14</sup></strong> These were grouped by their paternal houses: of Judah the chiefs of thousands, Adʹnah the chief, and with him were 300,000 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15</sup></strong> And under his command was Je·ho·haʹnan the chief, and with him were 280,000. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16</sup></strong> And also under his command was Am·a·siʹah the son of Zichʹri, who volunteered for Jehovah’s service, and with him were 200,000 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17</sup></strong> And out of Benjamin was E·liʹa·da, a mighty warrior, and with him were 200,000 men equipped with the bow and shield. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18</sup></strong> And under his command was Je·hozʹa·bad, and with him were 180,000 men equipped for the army. <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19</sup></strong> These were ministering to the king in addition to those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p id="p352" data-pid="352"><a href="1001061118-split17.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 17:4</span></a> Lit., “walked in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p id="p353" data-pid="353"><a href="1001061118-split17.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 17:6</span></a> See <a href="1001061175.xhtml#pos92006">Glossary</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
